Section 1:
1. 
Short title, extent and commencement.—(1) This Act may 
be called the Federal Excise Act, 2005, 
(2) 
It extends to the whole of Pakistan 
(3) 
It shall come into force on 1st day of July, 2005.
---

Section 2:
2. 
Definitions.—In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant 
in the subject or context,— 
 
(1) “adjudicating authority” means any authority competent to 
 
 pass any order or decision under this Act or the rules made 
 
 there under, but does not include the Board or Appellate 
 
 Tribunal; 
 
(2) “adjustment” means deduction of amount of duty paid on 
 
 goods used in the manufacture or production of other goods 
 
 from the amount of duty payable on such other  goods in the 
 
 prescribed manner; 
 
1[(3) “Appellate Tribunal” means the Appellate Tribunal Inland 
 
 Revenue established under section 130 of the Income Tax 
 
 Ordinance, 2001 (XLIX of 2001);] 
 
2[(4) “Board” means the Federal Board of Revenue established
 
 under the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924  (IV of 1924) 
 
 and on the commencement of the Federal Board of Revenue 
 
 Act, 2007, the Federal Board of Revenue established under 
 
 section 3 thereof;] 
 
                         
1  Clause (3) Substituted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 june 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
2  Substituted vide Finance Act, 2007 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
6 
 
1[(4A) “Chief Commissioner” means a person appointed as the Chief 
 
 Commissioner Inland Revenue under section 29;] 
 
2[(5) “Commissioner” 
means 
a 
person 
appointed 
as 
a  
 
 Commissioner Inland Revenue under section 29;] 
 
(6) “conveyance” means any means of transport used for carrying 
 
 goods or passengers such as vessel, aircraft, vehicle or animal 
 
 etc.; 
 
(7) “default surcharge” means surcharge levied under section 8; 
 
(8) “distributor” means a person appointed by a manufacturer in or 
 
 for a specified area to purchase goods from him for sale to a 
 
 wholesale dealer in that area; 
 
3[(8a) “due date”, in relation to furnishing a return under section 4, 
 
 means the 15th day of the month following the end of the 
 
 month, or such other date as the 4[Board] may, by notification 
 
 in the official Gazette, specify 5[and different dates may be 
 
 specified for furnishing of different parts or annexures of the 
 
 return]. 
 
6[(8b) “dutiable goods” means all excisable goods specified in the 
 
 First Schedule except those which are exempt under section 
 
 16 of the Act; 
 
(8c) “dutiable supply” means a supply of dutiable goods made by a 
 
 manufacturer other than a supply of goods which is exempt 
 
 under section 16 of the Act; 
                         
1  Clause (4A) Substituted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 june 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
2  Clause (5) Substituted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, Promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
3  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2006. 
4 
Substituted for the words “Federal Government” by Finance Act, 2017 
5 
Expression for full stop at end substituted through Finance Act, 2016. 
6  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
7 
 
(8d) “dutiable services” means all excisable services specified in 
 
 the First Schedule except those which are exempt under 
 
 section 16 of the Act; 
 
(9) “duty” means any sum payable under the provisions of this 
Act or the rules made there under and includes the default 
surcharge and the duty chargeable at the rate of zero percent 
1[excluding fee and service charges imposed and collected 
under section 49;] 
 
2(9a) “duty 
due” 
means 
duty 
in 
respect 
of 
supplies                                           
 
 made or services provided or rendered during a month and 
 
 shall be paid at the time of filing of return; 
 
(10) “establishment” includes an undertaking, firm or company, 
 
 whether incorporated or not, an association of persons and an 
 
 individual; 
 
(11) “factory” means any premises, including the precincts thereof, 
 
 wherein or in any part of which goods are manufactured, or 
 
 wherein or in any part of which any manufacturing process 
 
 connected with the production of the goods is being carried on 
 
 or is ordinarily carried on; 
 3[4[(12)] “Officer of Inland Revenue” means any person appointed by 
 
 the Board as officer of Inland Revenue under section 29 or any 
 
 person (including an officer of the Provincial Government) 
 
 entrusted by the Board with any of the powers of an officer of 
 
 Inland Revenue under this Act or rules made there under;] 
                         
1 Words inserted by Finance Act, 2022. 
2  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
 
3 
Clause (12) Substituted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The Finance Ordinance states clause 12 to 
be substituted by “(12A)”, however (12a) is already present in the Finance Ordinance. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
4 
Clause (12A) re-numbered as (12) by Finance Act, 2012. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
8 
 
1(12a) “franchise” means an authority given by a franchiser under 
 
 which the franchisee is contractually or otherwise granted any 
 
 right to produce, manufacture, sell or trade in or do any other 
 
 business activity in respect of goods or to provide service or 
 
 to undertake any process identified with franchiser against a 
 
 fee or consideration including royalty or technical fee, 
 
 whether or not a trade mark, service mark ,trade name, logo, 
 
 brand name or any such representation or symbol, as the case 
 
 may be, is involved;” 
 
(13) “goods” means goods leviable to excise duty under this Act or 
 
 as specified in the First Schedule and includes goods  
 
 manufactured or produced in non-tariff area and brought for use  
 
 or consumption to tariff area; 
 
(14) “goods insurance” includes fire, marine, theft, accident and 
 
 other such miscellaneous insurance; 
 
(15) “import” and “export” mean respectively bringing into, and 
 
 taking out of Pakistan by sea, land or air and shall be 
 
 deemed to have always been so  defined; 
 
2(15a) “KIBOR” means Karachi Inter Bank Offered Rate prevalent 
 
 on first day of each quarter of the financial year;” 
 
(16) “manufacture” includes,— 
 
 
(a) any process incidental or ancillary to the completion of a 
 
 manufactured product; 
 
(b) any process of re-manufacture, remaking, reconditioning 
 
 or repair and the processes of packing or repacking such 
 
 product, and, in relation to tobacco, includes the  
 
 preparation of cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, biris, cigarette 
 
 and pipe or hookah tobacco, chewing tobacco or 3[snuff, 
 
 or preparation of unmanufactured tobacco by drying, 
 
 cutting and thrashing of raw tobacco,] and the word 
                         
1 
Clause (12a) inserted by Finance Act, 2008. 
2 
Inserted vide Finance Act, 2009. 
3 
Substituted for “snuff,” by Finance Act, 2011. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
9 
 
 "manufacturer" shall be construed accordingly and shall 
 
 include,– 
 
(i) any person who employs hired labour in the  
 
 production or manufacture of goods; or 
 
(ii) any person who engages in the production or  
 
 manufacture of goods on his own account if such 
 
 goods are intended for sale; and 
 
(c) any person who, whether or not he carries out any 
 
 process of manufacture himself or through his employees 
 
 or any other person, gets any process of manufacture 
 
 carried out on his behalf by any person who is not in his 
 
 employment: 
Provided that any person so dealing in goods shall be 
deemed to have manufactured for all purposes of this Act, 
such goods in which he deals in any capacity whatever; 
 
[(16a) “non-fund banking services” includes all non-interest based 
services provided or rendered by the banking companies or 
non-banking financial institutions against a consideration in 
the form of a fee or commission or charges;”;] 
 
(17) “non-tariff area” means Azad Jammu and Kashmir,  Northern 
Areas and such other territories or areas to which this Act 
does not apply; 
 
(18) “person” includes a company, an association, a body of 
individuals, whether incorporated or not, a public or local 
authority, 
a 
Provincial 
Government 
or 
the 
Federal 
Government; 
 
(19) “prescribed” means prescribed under this Act or by rules 
made there under; 
 
1[(19a) “property developers or promoters” means persons engaged in 
                         
1 
Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
10 
development of purchased or leased land for conversion into 
residential or commercial plots or construction of residential 
or commercial units for sale;] 
 
(20) “registered person” means a person who is registered or is 
required to be registered under this Act provided that a person 
who is not registered but  
is required to be registered shall not 
be entitled to any benefit or privilege under this Act or rules 
made there under, unless he is registered and such benefit and 
privilege, unless allowed by Board, shall be confined to 
period of registration; 
 
(21) “sale” and “purchase” with their grammatical  variations and 
cognate expressions, mean any  transfer of the possession of 
goods or rendering and  providing of services by one person 
to another in the ordinary course of trade or business for cash 
or deferred payment or other consideration;                                              
 
1[(21a) “sales tax mode” means the manner of collection and payment 
under the Sales Tax Act, 1990, and rules made there under, of 
the duties of excise chargeable under this Act specified to be 
collected  and paid as if such duties were tax chargeable under 
section 3 of the said Act and all the provisions of that Act and 
rules, notifications, orders and instructions made or issued 
there under shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the excise duty 
so chargeable;] 
 
(22) “Schedule” means the schedule appended to this  Act; 
 
(23) “services” means services, facilities and utilities leviable to 
excise duty under this Act or as  specified 
in 
the 
First 
Schedule read with Chapter 98 of the Pakistan Customs 
Tariff, including the services, facilities and utilities originating 
from Pakistan or its tariff area or terminating in Pakistan or its 
tariff area; 
 
2[(23a) “supply” includes sale, lease or other disposition of goods and 
                         
1 
Inserted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
2  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
11 
shall include such transaction as the 1[Board, with the 
approval of the Federal Minister-in-charge,] may notify in the 
official  Gazette from time to time;] 
 
(24) “tariff area” means area other than the non-tariff  area; 
 
2[(24A) “un-manufactured tobacco” means tobacco useable for 
manufacture of cigarettes as manufactured by Green Leaf 
Threshing Units after processing and conversion of tobacco 
green leaf;] 
 
3[(24B) “whistleblower” means whistleblower as defined in  
section 
42D of the Federal Excise Act, 1990;] 
 
(25) “wholesale dealer” means a person who buys or  sells 
goods 
wholesale for the purpose of trade or manufacture, and 
includes a broker or commission agent who, in addition to 
making contracts for the  sale or purchase of goods for others, 
stocks such goods belonging to others as an agent for the 
purpose of sale; and 
 
(26) “zero-rated” means duty of Federal excise levied and charged 
at the rate of zero per cent under section 5 of  this act.  
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
                         
1  The words “Federal Government” substituted by Finance Act, 2019. 
2  New clause 24A inserted by by Finance Supplementary (Amendment) Act, 2018 
3  Earlier clause 24A re-numbered as clause 24B by Finance Supplementary (Amendment) Act, 2018 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
12 
CHAPTER II 
LEVY, COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF DUTY
---

Section 3:
3.  Duties specified in the First Schedule to be levied.—(1) 
Subject to the provisions of this Act and rules made there under, there shall 
be levied and collected in such manner as may be prescribed duties of excise 
on,— 
 
(a) goods produced or manufactured in Pakistan; 
 
(b) goods imported into Pakistan 1[, irrespective of their final 
destination in territories of Pakistan];  
 
(c) such goods as the 2[Federal Government] may, by notification 
in the official Gazette, specify, as are produced or 
manufactured in the non-tariff areas and are brought to the 
tariff areas for sale or consumption therein; 3[***] 
 
 4[(d) services provided in Pakistan including the services originated 
outside but rendered in Pakistan; 5[and] 
     6[(e)   any item not covered in clause (a) to (d) above and specified 
in the First Schedule.] 
at the rate of 7[fifteen] per cent ad valorem except the goods and services 
specified in the First Schedule, which shall be charged to Federal excise 
duty as, and at the rates, set-forth therein. 
(2) Duty in respect of goods imported into Pakistan shall be 
levied and collected in the same manner and at the same time as if it were 
a duty of customs payable under the Customs Act, 1969 (IV of 1969), and 
the provisions of the said Act including section 31A thereof shall apply. 
                         
1 
The expression inserted by Finance Act, 2017. 
2 
Words “Federal Government” substituted by Finance Act, 2018. 
3 Word omitted by Finance Act, 2023 
4 
Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
5 Word added by Finance Act, 2023 
6 New clause added by Finance Act, 2023 
7 
Substituted “fifty” vide Finance Act, 2006. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
13 
(3) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, in lieu 
of levying and collecting under sub-section (1) duties of excise on goods 
and services, as the case may be, levy and collect duties,— 
 
 
(a) on the production capacity of plants, machinery, undertakings, 
establishments or installations producing or manufacturing 
such goods; or 
 
(b) on fixed basis, as it may deem fit, on any goods or class of 
goods or on any services or class of services, payable by any 
establishment or undertaking producing or manufacturing 
such goods or providing or rendering such services. 
 
1[(3A) Subject to the provision of sub-section (3) of section 6 or any 
notification issued there under, where excisable goods and services are 
supplied to a person who has not obtained registration number, the Federal 
Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, charge, levy and 
collect, on the excisable goods and services specified in that notification, a 
further duty at the rate of two percent of the value in addition to the rate 
specified in sub-sections (1), (3), (4) and (5) of this section.] 
 
(4) Without prejudice to other provisions of this Act, the 
2[Federal Government] may levy and collect duty on any class or classes of 
goods or services by notification in the official Gazette at such higher or 
lower rate or rates as may be specified in such notification. 
 
3[(5) The liability to pay duty shall be— 
 
(a) in case of goods produced or manufactured in Pakistan, 
of the person manufacturing or producing such goods; 
           (b)   in case of goods imported  into Pakistan, of the person 
importing such goods; 
 
(c) in case of services provided or rendered in Pakistan, of 
the person providing or rendering such service  
                         
1 
Sub-section (3A) inserted by Finance Act, 2013. 
2 
Words “Federal Government” substituted by Finance Act, 2018. 
3 
Sub-section (5) inserted by Finance Act, 2013. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
14 
1[, provided where services are rendered by the person 
out of Pakistan, the recipient of such service in Pakistan 
shall be liable to pay duty]; and 
           (d)  in case of goods produced or manufactured in non-tariff 
areas and brought to tariff areas for sale or consumption 
therein, of the person bringing or causing to bring such 
goods to tariff areas.] 
 
2[(5A) In respect of goods, specified in the Fourth Schedule, the 
minimum production for a month shall be determined on the basis of a 
single or more inputs as consumed in the production process as per 
criterion specified in the Fourth Schedule and if minimum production so 
determined exceeds the actual supplies for the month, such minimum 
production shall be treated as quantity supplied during the month and the 
liability to pay duty shall be discharged accordingly.] 
Explanation.– Subject to sub-section (1), for the purpose of this section, 
“goods” means the goods specified in CHAPTERS 1 TO 97 and “services” 
means the services specified in CHAPTER 98 of the First Schedule to the 
Customs Act, 1969 (IV of 1969). 
 
 3[3A***]
---

Section 4:
4. Filing of return and payment of duty etc.— 4[(1) 5[For every 
month, a registered person] shall furnish not later than the due date a true 
and correct return in such manner and form as may be prescribed by the 
Board by notification in the official Gazette.] 
 
6[(2) Duty due for the dutiable supplies made or services rendered 
during a month shall be deposited by the registered person in the 
designated branch of the bank 7[by the date as prescribed in this respect]: 
                         
1 
Words etc. inserted by Finance Act, 2008. 
2 
New sub-section (5A) inserted through Finance Act, 2019. 
3 
Section 3A omitted by Finance Act, 2011 providing that in case of imports, this shall be deemed to have   
been made on June 20, 2011. Earlier it was inserted by Finance Act, 2007. 
4 
Sub section (1) substituted by Finance Act, 2006. 
5 
Substituted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
6 
Substituted vide Finance Act, 2007.                                                    
7 
Expression substituted through Finance Act, 2016. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
15 
Provided that the Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, 
prescribe any other manner of depositing the duty.] 
1[(3)***]. 
 
2(4) A registered person may, subject to approval of the 3[Commissioner 
Inland Revenue] of Federal Excise having jurisdiction, file a revised return within 
4[one hundred and twenty] days of the filing of return under sub-section (1), to 
correct any omission or wrong declaration made therein 4[:] 
  
5[Provided that the approval under this sub-section shall not 
be required if revised return is filed within sixty days of filing of 
the original return and either the duty payable as per the revised 
return is more than the amount paid or the refund claimed therein 
is less than the amount as claimed, under the return sought to be 
revised.] 
 
(5) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, require 
any person or class of persons for any goods or class of goods to furnish 
such summary or details of particulars pertaining to imports, purchases, 
utilization, consumption, production, sales or disposal of such goods during 
any month or months in such format and manner as may be specified and 
provisions of this subsection may be invoked mutatis mutandis in respect of 
services. 
 
(6) The Board may by an order, specify the manner and procedure 
for filing of return for the purpose of this Act or rules made there under 
and for payment of duty by electronic means. The Board may specify the 
manner and procedure for the submission, receipt and transmission of any 
information for the purpose of this Act or rules made there under by 
electronic means. 
 
(7) Every amount of duty due from any person on any other 
                         
1 
Sub-section (3) omitted through Finance Act, 2016. 
2 
Substituted vide Finance Act, 2006.                                                    
3 
Substituted for “Collector of Federal Excise” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 june 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
4 
Amended vide Finance Act, 2008.                                                    
5 For full stop a colon substituted and thereafter proviso inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
16 
account shall also be deposited on the prescribed 1[return] in the bank branch 
designated and in the same manner as aforesaid. 
 
2[(8) The Board may, by rules made under this Act, prescribe a 
composite return.]
---

Section 5:
5.  Zero rate of duty and drawback of duty etc.—(1) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3, the goods exported out of 
Pakistan or such goods as may be, by a notification in the official Gazette, 
specified by the Federal Government shall be charged to duty at the rate of 
zero per cent and adjustment of duty in terms of section 6 shall be admissible 
on such goods. 
 
(2) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, grant 
drawback of duty paid on any goods used in the manufacture of any goods 
manufactured in and exported out of Pakistan, or shipped as provisions or 
stores for consumption on board a ship or aircraft proceeding to a 
destination outside Pakistan, at such rate or rates and subject to such 
conditions and limitations as may be specified in the notification. 
 
3[(3) Notwithstanding anything in sub-sections (1) and (2), the 
Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, prohibit the payment of 
drawback, refund or adjustment of duty upon the exportation of goods or 
any specified goods or class of goods to any specified foreign port or 
territory.]
---

Section 6:
6. Adjustment of duties of excise.— (1) For the purpose of 
determining net liability of duty in respect of any goods, the duty already 
paid on goods specified in the First Schedule and used directly as input 
goods for the manufacture or production of such goods shall be deducted 
from the amount of duty calculated on such goods. 
 
(2) Adjustment of duty of excise under sub-section (1) shall be 
admissible only if a person registered under this Act holds a valid proof to 
the effect that he has paid the price of goods purchased by him including the 
amount of duty and received the price of goods sold by him including the 
amount of duty through banking channels including online payment whether 
through credit card or otherwise. 
                         
1 
Substituted for “challan” by Finance Act, 2007. 
2 
Added vide Finance Act, 2008.                                                    
3 
Added vide Finance Act, 2007.                                                    
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
17 
 
1[(2A) From the date to be notified by the Board, adjustment of duty 
of excise under sub-section (1) shall be admissible only if the 
supplier of input goods and services has declared such supply 
in his return and he has paid amount of tax due as indicated in 
his return]. 
 2[(2AB) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the rules 
made thereunder, the Board may, by notification in the 
official Gazette, may impose restrictions on wastage of 
material on which input tax has been claimed in respect of the 
goods or class of goods.] 
 
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (1), the Board 
may, by a notification in the official Gazette, disallow or restrict whole or part 
of the amount of or otherwise regulate the adjustment of duty in respect of 
any goods or class of goods.
---

Section 7:
7.  Application of the provisions of the Sales Tax Act, 1990.— 
 
3[(1)] In case of goods specified in the Second Schedule or such 
services as may be specified by the Board through a notification in the 
official Gazette 4[the duty shall be payable in sales tax mode, whereby],— 
 
(a) a registered person manufacturing or producing such goods or 
providing or rendering such services shall be entitled to deduct 
input tax paid during the tax period from the amount of duty of 
excise due from him on such goods or services in respect of that 
tax period; 
 
(b) a registered person shall be entitled to deduct the amount of duty 
of excise paid or payable by him on such goods or services as are 
acquired by him during a tax period from the output tax due from 
him in respect of that tax period; 
 
(c) a registered person supplying such goods or providing or 
rendering such services shall be entitled to deduct duty of excise 
paid or payable on such goods or services as are acquired by him 
                         
1 
New sub-section added through Finance Act, 2016. 
2 New sub-section inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
3 
Section 7 renumbered as sub-section (1) by Finance Act, 2008. 
4 
Words and commas inserted by Finance Act, 2007. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
18 
during the tax period from the amount of duty of excise due from 
him on such goods manufactured or produced or services as are 
provided or rendered by him during that period; and  
 
(d) a person shall be entitled to deduct duty of excise paid or payable, 
on such goods or services as are acquired by him during a month, 
from the amount of duty of excise due from him on such goods 
manufactured or produced or services as are provided or rendered 
by him, during that month. Such services as are provided or 
rendered by him, during that month. 
Explanation.— For the purposes of this section, the expressions 
“input tax”, “output tax” and “tax period” shall have the same meanings as 
are assigned to them in the Sales Tax Act, 1990 1[*** ]. 
 
2[(2) The 3[Board, with the approval of the Federal Minister-in-
charge,] may, by notification in the official Gazette, declare that any of the 
provisions of the Sales Tax Act,1990, relating to the levy of and 
exemption from sales tax, registration, book keeping and invoicing 
requirements, returns, offences and penalties, appeals and recovery of 
arrears shall, with such modifications and alterations as it may consider 
necessary or desirable to adapt them to the circumstances, be applicable in 
regard to like matters in respect of the duty leviable under this Act.] 
 
4[8. Default surcharge.—If a person does not pay the duty due or 
any part thereof within the prescribed time or receives a refund of duty or 
drawback or makes an adjustment which is not admissible to him, he shall, 
in addition to the duty due, pay default surcharge at the rate of 5[twelve] 
per cent” 6[per annum]] of the duty due, refund of duty or drawback. 
Explanation.—For the purpose of this section,– 
 
(a) the period of default shall be reckoned from the date following 
the due date on which the duty was payable to the preceding day on which 
the duty is actually paid; and  
 
(b) in case of inadmissible adjustment or refund of duty or 
                         
1  Omitted vide Finance Act, 2007.                                                   
2 
Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008.                                                    
3 
The words “Federal Government” substituted through Finance Act, 2019. 
4  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
5  Words “twelve” substituted by Finance Act, 2018. 
6  Words inserted by Finance Act, 2011. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
19 
drawback, the period of default shall be reckoned from the date of such 
adjustment or as the case may be, refund of duty or drawback is received.]
---

Section 8:
9. Liability for payment of duty in the case of private 
companies or business enterprises or in case of sale of business 
ownership.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other  law for 
the time being in force, where any private company or business enterprise is 
closed or discontinued or otherwise ceases to exist and any amount of duty 
chargeable on the company or business enterprise, whether before, or in the 
course of, or after its liquidation cannot be recovered from the company or 
business enterprise, every person who was a owner of, or partner in, or 
director of, the company or business enterprise shall, jointly and severally 
with such persons, be liable for the payment of such duty. 
 
(2) In the case of sale or transfer of ownership of a business or 
part thereof involving any charge of duty to another person as an ongoing 
concern, the chargeable duty shall be paid by the person to whom such sale 
is made or ownership is transferred provided that if any amount of duty 
payable by such person remains unpaid, such unpaid amount of duty shall 
be the first charge on the assets of the business and shall be payable by the 
transferee of business: 
Provided that no business enterprise or a part thereof shall be sold 
or transferred unless the outstanding duty is paid and a no objection 
certificate in this behalf from the 1[Commissioner] concerned is obtained. 
 
(3) In case of termination of a business or part thereof involving 
any outstanding charge of duty, a person terminating such business or part 
thereof shall be required to account for and pay the outstanding charge of 
duty as if no such termination has taken place.
---

Section 9:
10. Applicable value and rate of duty.— The value and the rate 
of duty applicable to any goods or services shall be the value, retail price, 
tariff value and the rate of duty in force,–. 
 
(a) in the case of goods, on the date on which the goods are 
2[supplies] for export or for home consumption; 
 
(b) in the case of services, on the date on which the services are 
provided or rendered; and 
                         
1 
Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. 
2 
Substituted for “cleared” by Finance Act, 2007. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
20 
 
(c) in the case of goods produced or manufactured outside the areas 
to which this Act has been applied and brought to such areas for 
sale or consumption therein, the date on which the goods are 
brought to those areas.
---

Section 10:
11. Collection of excess duty etc.– Every person who for any 
reason whatever has collected or collects any duty, which is not payable as 
duty or which is in excess of the duty actually payable and the incidence of 
which has been passed on to the consumer, shall pay the amount so 
collected to the Federal Government and all the provisions of this Act or 
rules made there under shall apply for the recovery of such amount and 
claim for refund of any such amount paid or recovered shall not be 
admissible on any ground whatever.
---

Section 11:
12. Determination of value for the purposes of duty.– 1[(1) 
Where any goods are liable to duty under this Act at a rate dependent on 
their value, duty shall be assessed and paid on the basis of value as 
determined in accordance with sub-section (46)of section 2 of the Sales 
Tax Act, 1990, excluding the amount of duty payable thereon. ] 
 
(2) Where any services are liable to duty under this Act at a rate 
dependent on the charges therefore, the duty shall be paid on total amount 
of charges for the services including the ancillary facilities or utilities, if 
any, irrespective whether such services have been rendered or provided on 
payment of charge or free of charge or on any concessional basis. 
 
(3) Where any goods are chargeable to duty at the import stage, 
duty will be assessed and paid on the value determined in accordance with 
section 25 of the Customs Act, 1969 (IV of 1969), including customs duties 
payable thereon. 
 
(4) Where any goods are chargeable to a duty on the basis of retail 
price, duty thereon shall be paid on the retail price fixed by the manufacturer, 
inclusive of all 2[duties,] charges and taxes, other than sales tax levied and 
collected under section 3 of the Sales Tax Act, 1990, at which any particular 
brand or variety of such goods should be sold to the general body of 
consumers or, if more than one such price is so fixed for the same brand or 
variety, the highest of such price and such retail price shall, unless otherwise 
                         
1 
Substituted vide Finance Act, 2008 
2 
Words and comma inserted by Finance Act, 2007. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
21 
directed by the Board, be legibly, prominently and indelibly indicated on each 
good, packet, container, package, cover or label of such goods: 
Provided that where so and as specified by the Board, any goods or 
class of goods liable to duty on local production as percentage of retail 
price, the provisions of this sub-section shall mutatis mutandis apply in case 
such goods are imported from abroad 1[:] 
2[Provided further that the Board may through a general order 
specify zones or areas only for the purpose of determination of highest 
retail price for any brand or variety of goods.] 
 
(5) The Board may fix the minimum price of any goods or class 
of goods, for the purpose of levying and collecting of duty and duty on 
such goods shall be paid accordingly. 
 
3[Provided that, where the price at which the goods or class of 
goods are sold, is higher than the price fixed by the Board, the duty shall, 
unless otherwise directed by the Board, be levied and collected at such 
higher price.]
---

Section 12:
13. Registration.— (1) Any person engaged in the production or 
manufacture of goods or providing or rendering services liable to duty of 
excise under this Act shall, unless otherwise specified, be required to obtain 
registration in the prescribed manner regardless of his annual turnover or 
volume of sales of such goods or services. 
 
(2) Where a person who is already registered under the Sales Tax 
Act, 1990, shall not be required to take separate registration for excise 
purpose and his sales tax registration shall be deemed to be a registration for 
the purpose of this Act: 
Provided that provisions of the Sales Tax Act, 1990, including those 
relating to exemption threshold shall not apply where a person obtains or is 
liable to obtain registration for the purposes of this Act but does not have or is 
not liable to registration under the Sales Tax Act, 1990.
---

Section 13:
14. Recovery of unpaid duty or of erroneously refunded duty or 
arrears of duty, etc.—(1) Where any person has not levied or paid any duty 
or has short levied or short paid such duty or where any amount of duty has 
                         
1 
Colon substituted vide Finance Act, 2014. 
2 
Proviso inserted vide Finance Act, 2014. 
3 
Added vide Finance Act, 2006.                                                  
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
22 
been refunded erroneously, such person shall be serviced with notice 
requiring him to show cause for payment of such duty provided that such 
notice shall be issued within 1[five] years from the relevant date. 
 
(2) The 2[officer of Inland Revenue], empowered in this behalf, 
shall after considering the objections of the person served with a notice to 
show cause under sub-section (1), determine the amount of duty payable by 
him and such person shall pay the amount so determined along with default 
surcharge and penalty as specified by such officer under the provisions of this 
Act 3[:] 
4[Provided that an order under this section shall be made within one 
hundred and twenty days of issuance of show cause notice or within such 
extended period as the Commissioner may, for reasons to be recorded in 
writing, fix, provided that such extended period shall in no case exceed sixty 
days: 
Provided further that any period during which the proceedings are 
adjourned on account of a stay order or Alternative Dispute Resolution 
proceedings or the time taken through adjournment by the petitioner not 
exceeding thirty days shall be excluded from the computation of the 
periods specified in the first proviso.] 
 
(3) Where any amount of duty levied and penalty imposed or any 
other amount payable under this Act is due from any person, such amount or 
sum shall be recovered in such manner as is prescribed under this Act or 
rules made there under. 
 
5[(4) The provision of sub-section (2) shall mutatis mutandis apply 
regarding assistance in collection and recovery of duties in pursuance of a 
request from a foreign jurisdiction under a tax treaty, a multilateral 
convention, and inter-governmental agreement or similar agreement or 
mechanism as the case may be.] 
 
                         
1 
Substituted for three by Finance Act, 2011. 
2 
Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
3 
Substituted for full stop by Finance Act, 2011. 
4 
Proviso inserted by Finance Act, 2011. 
5 New sub-section (4) inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
23 
 
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained under any other law for the 
time being in force, where any business or activity involving liability to 
charge, levy and pay duty under this Act is sold, discontinued or liquidated, 
the amount of unpaid or recoverable duty shall be the first charge on the 
assets of the business. 
Explanation.—For the purpose of this section, 1[refund includes 
drawback of duty and]  the expression “relevant date” means the date on 
which the payment of duty was due under sub-section (3) and in case 
where any amount of duty has been erroneously refunded, the date of its 
refund. 
 
 
2[14A. Short paid amounts recoverable. –Notwithstanding the 
provisions of this Act or the rules made there under, here a registered 
person pays the amount of duty less than the duty due as indicated in his 
return, the short paid amount of duty along with default surcharge shall be 
recovered from such person by stopping removal of any goods from his 
business premises and through attachment of his business bank accounts 
without prejudice to any other action under this Act or the rules made 
there under: 
Provided that no penalty under this Act or rules made there under 
shall be imposed unless a show cause notice is given to such person.] 
 
3[14B. Assessment giving effect to an order.–. (1) Except where 
sub-section (2) applies, where, in consequence of, or to give effect to, any 
finding or direction in any order made under Chapter-V by the 
Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal, High Court, or Supreme 
Court, the Commissioner or an officer of Inland Revenue empowered in 
this behalf, shall issue the order within one year from the end of the 
financial year in which the order of the Commissioner (Appeals), 
Appellate Tribunal, High Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be, 
was served on the Commissioner or Officer of Inland Revenue. 
 
(2) Where, by an order made under Chapter V by the Appellate 
Tribunal, High Court, or Supreme Court, an order of assessment is 
remanded wholly or partly, and the Commissioner or Commissioner 
(Appeals) or the Officer of Inland Revenue, as the case may be, is directed 
                         
1 
Added vide Finance Act, 2008. 
2 
Inserted by Finance Act, 2007. 
3New section 14B inserted by Finance Act, 2018. 
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
24 
to pass a new order of assessment, the Commissioner or Commissioner 
(Appeals) or Officer of Inland Revenue, as the case may be, shall pass the 
new order within one year from the end of the financial year in which the 
Commissioner or Commissioner (Appeals) or Officer of Inland Revenue, 
as the case may be, is served with the order: 
Provided that limitation under this sub-section shall not apply if an 
appeal or reference has been preferred against the order passed by 
Appellate Tribunal or a High Court.] 
 
1[14C. Power of tax authorities to modify orders, etc.–. (1) 
Where a question of law has been decided by a High Court or the 
Appellate Tribunal in the case of a registered person, on or after first day 
of July 2005, the Commissioner or an officer of Inland Revenue may, 
notwithstanding that he has preferred an appeal against the decision of the 
High Court or made an application for reference against the order of the 
Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, follow the said decision in the 
case of the said taxpayer in so far as it applies to said question of law 
arising in any assessment pending before the Commissioner or an officer 
of Inland Revenue, until the decision of the High Court or of the Appellate 
Tribunal is reversed or modified.  
(2)  
In case the decision of High Court or the Appellate 
Tribunal, referred to in sub-section (1), is reversed or modified, the 
Commissioner or an officer of Inland Revenue may, notwithstanding the 
expiry of period of limitation prescribed for making any assessment or 
order, within a period of one year from the date of receipt of decision, 
modify the assessment or order in which the said decision was applied so 
that it conforms to the final decision.]
---

Section 14:
15. 
Application of the Customs Act, 1969 (IV of 1969) to 
Federal excise duties.—The Federal Government may, by notification in 
the official Gazette, declare that any or all of the provisions of the Customs 
Act, 1969 (IV of 1969), shall, with such modifications and alterations it 
may specify, consider necessary or desirable to adapt them to the 
circumstances, be applicable in regard to like matters in respect of the duties 
levied by sections 3 and 8.
---

Section 15:
16. Exemptions.—(1) 
All 
goods 
imported, 
produced 
or 
                         
1 New section 14C inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
25 
manufactured in Pakistan and services provided or rendered except such 
goods and services as are specified in the First Schedule shall be exempt 
from whole of excise duties 1[levied under section 3]: 
 
Provided that goods and services specified in the Third Schedule 
shall be exempt from duty subject to such conditions and restrictions, if any, 
specified therein and no adjustment in terms of section 6 shall be admissible 
in respect of goods exempt from duty of excise whether conditionally or 
otherwise. 
 
 
2[(2) The Federal Government may, whenever circumstances exist 
to take immediate action for the purposes of national security, natural 
disaster, 
national 
food 
security 
in 
emergency 
situations 
and 
implementation of bilateral and multilateral agreements, by notification in 
the official Gazette, exempt subject to such conditions as may be specified 
therein, any goods or class of goods or any services or class of services 
from the whole or any part of the duty leviable under this Act.] 
3[(3)  * * *] 
 
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of 4[sub-section (2)], the 
Federal Government or the Board may, by a notification in the official 
Gazette, for reasons to be recorded, exempt any person or class of persons 
from payment of the whole or part of the default surcharge imposed under 
section 8 5[and penalties] subject to the such conditions or limitations as 
may be specified in such notification. 
 
6[(5) The 7[Board] shall place before the National Assembly all 
notifications issued under this section in a financial year. 
 
(6) Any notification issued under sub-section (2) after 1st July, 
2015, shall, if not earlier rescinded, stand rescinded on the expiry of the 
financial year in which it was issued 8[: 
                         
1 
Added vide Finance Act, 2007. 
2 
Sub-section (2) substituted by Finance Act, 2019. 
3 
Sub-section (3) omitted by Finance Act, 2015 
4 
Substituted for the words, figures and brackets “sub-sections (2) and (3)” by Finance Act, 2015 
5 
Inserted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
6 
Sub-sections (5) and (6) inserted by Finance Act, 2015  
7 
Substituted for the words “Federal Government” by Finance Act, 2017 
8 
Provisos added by Finance Act, 2017 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
26 
Provided that all such notifications, except those earlier rescinded, 
shall be deemed to have been in force with effect from the 1st July, 2016 
and shall continue to be in force till the 30th June, 2018, if not earlier 
rescinded: 
Provided further that all notifications issued on or after the first 
day of July, 2016 and placed before the National Assembly as required 
under sub-section (5) shall continue to be in force till thirtieth day of June, 
2018, if not earlier rescinded by the Federal Government or the National 
Assembly.]
---

Section 16:
17. Records.—(1) Every person registered for the purposes of this 
Act shall maintain and keep for a period of 1[six] years 2[or till such 
further period the final decision in any proceedings including proceedings 
for assessment, appeal, revision, reference, petition and any, proceedings 
before an Alternative Dispute Resolution Committee is finalized] at his 
business premises or registered office in English or Urdu language the 
following records of excisable goods purchased, manufactured and cleared 
(including those cleared without payment of excise duty) by him or by his 
agent acting on his behalf in such form and manner as would permit ready 
ascertainment of his liability of duty, namely:— 
 
(a) records of clearances and sales made indicating the 
description, quantity and value of goods, name and address of 
the person to whom sales were made and the amount of the 
duty charged; 
 
(b) records of goods purchased showing the description, quantity and 
value of goods, name, address and registration number of the 
supplier and the amount of the duty, if any, on purchases; 
                         
1 
Substituted for “Five” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
2 
Words and commas inserted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
27 
 
(c) records of goods cleared and sold without payment of duty; 
 
(d) records of invoices, bills, accounts, agreements, contracts, 
orders and other allied business matters; 
 
1[(da) record relating to gate passes, inward or outward, and 
transport receipts;] 
 
(e) records of production, stocks and inventory; 
 
(f) records of imports and exports; and 
 
(g) such other records as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(2) For any person or class of persons registered under this Act, or 
for any goods or class of goods the Board may specify or prescribe,— 
 
(a) to keep any other records for the purposes of this Act; 
 
(b) to use such electronic fiscal cash registers as may be approved 
by the Board; and 
 
(c) the procedure or software for electronic maintenance of records 
and filing of statements, documents or information by any 
person or class of persons. 
 
(3) Provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall apply mutatis 
mutandis on services provided or rendered by a person registered under this 
Act.
---

Section 17:
18. Invoices.—(1) A person registered under this Act shall issue 
for each transaction a serially numbered invoice at the time of clearance or 
sale of goods, including goods chargeable to duty at the rate of zero per cent, 
or providing or rendering services containing the following particulars, 
namely:– 
 
a. name, address and registration number of the seller; 
 
b. name, address and registration number of the buyer; 
                         
1 
Clause (da) inserted by Finance Act, 2013. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
28 
 
c. date of issue of the invoice; 
 
d. description and quantity of goods or as the case may be, 
description of services; 
 
e. value exclusive of excise duty; 
 
f. amount of excise duty; and 
 
g. value inclusive of excise duty. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding sub-section (1), where a registered person is 
also engaged in making supplies taxable under the Sales Tax Act, 1990, 
such person shall not be required to issue a separate invoice for excise 
purposes and the amount of excise duty and other related information may 
in such cases be mentioned on the invoice issued for sales tax purposes. 
 
(3) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, specify 
such modified invoices for different persons or classes of persons as it may 
deem necessary. 
 
(4) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, specify 
goods in respect of which a copy of the invoice shall be carried or 
accompanied with the conveyance during their transportation or movement 
in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be specified in this 
behalf either in such notification or otherwise. 
 
1[(5) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, specify 
the goods or services in respect of which sales invoice shall be issued 
electronically and prescribe the manner and procedure therein.] 
CHAPTER III 
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
---

Section 18:
19. Offences, penalties, fines and allied matters.—(1)  Any 
person who fails to file or files an incorrect return within the period specified 
in sub-section (1) of section 4 or fails to make payment or makes short 
payment of duty on any account, shall pay a penalty of 2[five thousand 
                         
1  Added vide Finance Act, 2006 
2 
Substituted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
29 
rupees in case of non-filing of return  and ten thousand rupees or five per 
cent of the duty involved whichever is higher in case of short payment of 
duty due] in addition to the amount due from him and without prejudice to 
other liabilities which may be determined against him or action which may 
be taken against him under this Act and rules made there under ;  
1[Provided that where a person files the return within fifteen days 
after the due date he shall pay a penalty of one hundred rupees for each 
day of default”; and] 
 
(2) Any person who,–– 
 
(a) makes, orally or in writing, or signs any declaration, 
certificate or other document required by this Act or rules 
made there under or by any Federal Excise officer to do so, 
which is untrue or incorrect in any particular or which is 
incomplete by omitting any material particular there 
from; 
 
(b) counterfeits or falsifies, or uses, when counterfeited or 
falsified, any document which is or may be required 
under this Act or rules made there under or any document 
used in the transaction of any business or matter relevant 
to this Act or rules made there under; 2[omitted] 
 
(c) fails or refuses to give or produce to the 3[officer of 
Inland Revenue] any information or document required 
to be given or produced under this Act or rules made there 
under; 4[and] 
 
1[(d) a person who sells cigarettes in retail at a price lower 
than the retail price plus the amount of sales tax as 
                         
1  Added vide Finance Act, 2008. 
2  The word “and” omitted by Finance Act, 2019. 
3  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
4 
The word “and” inserted by Finance Act, 2019. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
30 
printed thereon,] 
shall be guilty of an offence and for every such offence shall be liable to fine 
which may extend to twenty thousand rupees and in case of offence under 
clause (b), the fine may extend to one hundred thousand rupees and he shall 
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years 
or with both. 
 
(3) Any person who,— 
 
(a) illegally removes, stores, keeps, or withdraws or in any way 
assists or is concerned in the illegal removal or withdrawal of 
any goods in the manner other than the manner prescribed 
under this Act or rules made there under; 
 
(b) is in any way concerned in conveying, removing, depositing or 
dealing with any goods with intent to defraud the Government 
of any duty of excise due thereon, or to violate any of the 
provisions of this Act or rules made there under;  
 
(c) is in any way concerned in any fraudulent evasion or attempt at 
fraudulent evasion of any duty of excise; 
 
(d) claims, takes or avails adjustment of duty not admissible 
under this Act or the rules made there under; and 
 
(e) is in any way concerned in the manufacture of any dutiable 
goods in contravention of the provisions of this Act or rules 
made there under; 
shall be guilty of an offence and for each such offence, shall be liable to fine 
which may extend to fifty thousand rupees or five times of the duty involved, 
whichever is higher and to punishment with imprisonment which may 
extend to five years or both. 
 
(4) Any person who, without the approval of the 2[Commissioner], 
                                                             
1  New clause (d) inserted through Finance Act, 2019. 
2  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
31 
directly or otherwise destroys, damages, erases or otherwise manipulates 
data stored in or used in connection with a computer or otherwise uses a 
computer, the purpose or effect of which is to reduce, avoid or evade any 
liability to duty of excise which would otherwise have been imposed by this 
Act, or to defeat any provisions of this Act or rules made there under shall be 
guilty of an offence and shall be liable to fine which may extend to seventy 
five thousand rupees or ten times of the duty involved, whichever is higher 
and to punishment with imprisonment which may extend to five years or 
both. 
(5) If any person obtains, attempts to obtain or abets in obtaining, 
or does anything whereby there might be obtained by another person, any 
amount by way of refund or drawback of any duty in respect of any goods 
1[or services] not lawfully payable or allowable in respect thereof or which 
is greater than the amount so payable or allowable, he shall be guilty of an 
offence and shall be liable to fine which may extend to one hundred 
thousand rupees or five times of duty involved, whichever is higher and to 
punishment with imprisonment which may extend to five years or both. 
(6) Any person who obstructs any 2[officer of Inland Revenue] or 
other public servant or any person acting in his aid or assistance, or duly 
employed for the prevention of offences under this Act or rules made there 
under in the execution of his duty or in the due seizing of any goods liable to 
seizure under this Act or rules made there under, shall be guilty of an offence 
and for each such offence, shall be liable to fine which may extend to fifty 
thousand rupees or five times of duty involved, whichever is higher and to 
punishment which may extend to three years or both. 
(7) Where an offence under this Act or rules made there under has 
been committed by a company, firm, or other body of persons, any person 
who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, manager, 
or other similar officer or a partner of the company, firm, or other body of 
                                                             
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
1  Words inserted by Finance Act, 2008. 
2 
Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
32 
persons or was purporting to act in that capacity shall be deemed to be 
guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was committed 
without his consent or connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to 
prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised, 
having regard to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to all the 
circumstances. 
(8) Unless otherwise legally proved, where any person is liable 
under this Act to any penalty or punishment for any act, omission, neglect or 
default, he shall be liable to the same punishment, penalty or forfeiture for 
every such act, omission, neglect or default of any agent or employee. 
(9) Where any goods are chargeable to duty on the basis of retail 
price under this Act and the retail price is not indicated on the goods 1[and 
in case of cigarettes, retail price, health warning and name of the 
manufacturer is not mentioned] in the manner specified therein or in the 
rules made there under, the duty shall be charged at the rate of 500 per cent 
ad valorem in case of cigarettes, and 40 per cent ad valorem in case of 
goods other than cigarettes: 
 
Provided that in cases where a registered person does not intend to 
print   retail price for any genuine reasons, he may voluntarily pay duty on the 
said higher rates as applicable to him and declare his duty payments in the 
return accordingly and other provisions of this section shall not apply in such 
cases. 
 
(10) 
2[Where any person is engaged in the manufacture or 
production of cigarettes 3[or un-manufactured tobacco] in the manner contrary 
to this Act or the rules made thereunder or otherwise evades duty of excise on 
cigarettes 4[or un-manufactured tobacco] or is engaged in the manufacture or 
production of counterfeited cigarettes or tax stamps, banderoles, stickers, labels 
or barcodes, or is engaged in the manufacturing or production of cigarettes 
packs without affixing, or affixing counterfeited, tax stamps, banderoles, 
stickers, labels or barcodes, the machinery, equipments, instruments or devices 
used in such manufacture or production shall, after outright confiscation, be 
destroyed in such manner as may be approved by the Commissioner and such 
                         
1  Added vide Finance Act, 2009. 
2  Sub-section (10) substituted by Finance Act, 2017 
3  Words inserted by Finance Supplementary (Amendment) Act, 2018 
4  Words inserted by Finance Supplementary (Amendment) Act, 2018 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
33 
person shall not be entitled to any claim on any ground whatsoever, or be 
otherwise not entitled to any compensation in respect of such machinery or 
equipments, instruments or devices and such confiscation or destruction shall 
be without prejudice to any other penal action which may be taken under the 
law against the person or in respect of the cigarettes 1[or un-manufactured 
tobacco], tax stamps, stickers, labels, barcodes or vehicles involved in or 
otherwise linked or connected with the case.] 
(11) 
Any goods in respect of which any of the provisions of this 
Act or rules made or notifications issued there under has been contravened 
shall be liable to confiscation along with the conveyance, if any, in which 
such goods are laden or have been or being carried and all confiscations in 
this regard shall vest with the Federal Government. 
(12) 
Any person who attempts to commit any offence punishable 
under this Act, or abets the commission of the offence, shall be liable to the 
punishment provided for the offence. 
(13) 
1[Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act or 
rules made thereunder for which no penalty has specifically been provided 
in this section shall be liable to pay a penalty of five thousand rupees or 
three percent of the amount of duty involved, whichever is higher]. 
 
 
2[19A. ***]
---

Section 19:
20. Appointment of Special Judges for trial of offences.– (1) 
The Federal Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, 
appoint as many Special Judges as it may consider necessary, and, where it 
appoints more than one Special Judge, shall specify in the notification the 
territorial limits within which each one of them shall exercise jurisdiction. 
(2)  
A Special Judge shall be a person who is or has been or is 
qualified to be a Sessions Judge.
---

Section 20:
21. Trial of offences by Special Judge. — (1) On the appointment 
of a Special Judge for any area, an offence punishable under this Act shall be 
tried exclusively by the Special Judge and all cases pending in any other 
court in such area immediately before such appointment shall stand 
                         
1 
New sub-section (13) inserted through Finance Act, 2016. 
2 
Section 19A omitted through Finance Act, 2022. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
34 
transferred to such Special Judge. 
 
(2) The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act 
V of 1898), except those of Chapter XXXVIII of that Code, shall apply to 
the proceedings of the court of a Special Judge and, for the purposes of the 
said provisions, the court of a Special Judge shall be deemed to be a Court of 
Session trying cases, and a person conducting prosecution before the court 
of a Special Judge shall be deemed to be a Public Prosecutor. 
 
(3) For the purposes of sub-section (2), the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), shall have effect as if an offence 
punishable   under this Act were one of the offences referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 337 of the Code. 
 
(4) A Special Judge shall take cognizance of, and have jurisdiction 
to try an offence tribal under sub-section (1) only upon a complaint in 
writing made by such 1[officer of Inland Revenue] as may be authorized by 
the Board in this behalf, by a general or special order in writing. 
 
(5) The provisions of Chapter XX of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), shall apply to trial of cases under this Act 
in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act. 
 
(6) The Federal Government may, by order in writing, direct the 
transfer, at any stage of the trial, of any case from the court of one Special 
Judge to the court of another Special Judge for disposal, whenever it 
appears to the Federal Government that such transfer will promote the ends 
of justice or tend to the general convenience of parties or witnesses. 
 
 
(7) In respect of a case transferred to a Special Judge by virtue of 
sub-section (1) or under sub-section (6), such Judge shall not, by reason of 
the said transfer, be bound to recall and rehear any witness who has given 
evidence in the case before the transfer and may act on the evidence already 
                         
1 
Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
35 
recorded by or produced before the court which tried the case before the 
transfer. 
 
1[21A. Appeal against the order of Special Judge.– An appeal against 
the order of a special Judge in respect of the trial of offence sall lie to the 
respective High Court of the Province within thirty days of the passing of the 
order and it shall be heard as an appeal under the Code of Criminal Procedure 
1898 (Act V of 1898) by a single judge of High Court.]
---

Section 21:
22. Power to arrest and prosecute.– (1) Any 2[officer of Inland 
Revenue] authorized by the Board in this behalf who has reason to believe 
that any person has committed an offence under this Act may arrest such 
person after obtaining permission in writing from the 3[Commissioner] 
concerned: 
Provided that the 1[officer of Inland Revenue] shall immediately 
intimate the fact of the arrest of a person to the Special Judge who may 
direct such Officer to produce that person at such time and place and on 
such date as the Special Judge considers expedient and such Officer shall act 
accordingly. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in proviso to sub-section 
(1), any person arrested under this Act shall be produced before the Special 
Judge or, if there is no Special Judge within a reasonable distance, to the 
nearest Judicial Magistrate, within twenty-four hours of such arrest, 
excluding the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the 
Court of the Special Judge or, as the case may be, of such Magistrate. 
 
(3) When any person is produced under sub-section (2) before the 
                         
1  Section 21A inserted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. 
2  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
3  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
36 
Special Judge, he may, on the request of such person, after perusing the 
record, if any, and after giving the prosecution an opportunity of being 
heard, admit him to bail on his executing a bond, with or without sureties, or 
refuse to admit him to bail and direct his detention at such place as he 
deems fit: 
Provided that nothing herein contained shall preclude the Special 
Judge from canceling the bail of any such person at a subsequent stage if, 
for any reason, he considers such cancellation necessary, but before passing 
such order he shall afford such person an opportunity of being heard, unless 
for reasons to be recorded he considers that the affording of such 
opportunity shall defeat the purposes of this Act. 
 
(4) When such person is produced under sub-section (2) before a 
Judicial Magistrate, such Magistrate may, after authorizing his detention in 
such custody, at such place and for such period as he considers necessary 
or proper for facilitating his earliest production before the Special Judge, 
direct his production before the Special Judge on a date and time to be fixed 
by him or direct such person to be forthwith taken to, and produced before, 
the Special Judge and he shall be so taken. 
 
(5) Nothing in sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) shall preclude 
the Special Judge or the Magistrate from remanding any such person to the 
custody of the 1[officer of Inland Revenue] holding inquiry against that 
person if such Officer makes a request in writing, to that effect and the 
Special Judge or the Judicial Magistrate, after perusing the record, if any, 
and hearing such person, is of the opinion that for the completion of inquiry 
or investigation it is necessary to make such an order, provided that in no 
case the period of such custody shall exceed fourteen days. 
 
 
 
 
(6) When any person is arrested under this Act, the 1[officer of 
Inland Revenue] shall record the fact of arrest and other relevant particulars 
in the register mentioned in sub-section (10) and shall immediately proceed 
to inquire into the charge against such person and if he completes the 
inquiry within twenty-four hours of his arrest, excluding the time necessary 
for journey as aforesaid, he may, after producing such person before the 
Special Judge or the nearest Judicial Magistrate make a request for his 
further detention in his custody. 
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
37 
 
(7) While holding an inquiry under sub-section (6), the 1[officer of 
Inland Revenue] shall exercise the same powers as are exercisable by an 
officer in charge of a police-station under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
1898 (Act V of 1898), but such Officer shall exercise such powers subject 
to the foregoing provisions of this section while holding an inquiry under 
this Act. 
 
 
(8) If a 1[officer of Inland Revenue], after holding an inquiry, is of 
the opinion that there is no sufficient evidence or reasonable grounds to 
proceed against a person he shall make a report to this effect to the 
2[Commissioner]  and with his approval may release him on his executing a 
bond with or without sureties and shall direct such person to appear, as and 
when required, before the Special Judge and may make a report to the 
Special Judge for the discharge of such person and shall make a full report 
of the case of his immediate superior. 
 
 
 
(9) The Special Judge to whom a report has been made under 
subsection (8) may, after the perusal of record of the inquiry and hearing 
the prosecution, agree with such report and discharge the accused or, if he is 
of the opinion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against such 
person, proceed with his trial and direct the prosecution to produce evidence. 
 
 
(10) The 3[officer of Inland Revenue] empowered to hold inquiry 
under this section shall maintain a register to be called "Register of Arrests 
                         
1 
Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
3  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
38 
and Detention" in the prescribed form in which he shall enter the name and 
other particulars of every person arrested under this Act, together with the 
time and date of arrest, the details of the information received, the details of 
things, goods or documents, recovered from his custody, the name of the 
witnesses and the explanation, if any, given by him and the manner in which 
the inquiry has been conducted from day to day, and such register or 
authenticated copies of its aforesaid entries shall be produced before the 
Special Judge whenever such Officer is so directed by him. 
 
(11) After completing the inquiry, the 1[officer of Inland Revenue]  
shall, as early as possible, submit to the Special Judge a complaint in the 
same form and manner, in which the officer in charge of a police-station 
submits a report before a court. 
 
(12) Any Magistrate of the first class may record any statement or 
confession during inquiry under this Act, in accordance with the 
provisions of section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 
1898). 
 
(13) Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this section, 
the 1[Board, with the approval of the Federal Minister-in-charge,] may, by 
notification in the official Gazette, authorize any other officer working 
under the Board to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a 
1[officer of Inland Revenue] under this section, subject to such conditions, if 
any, that it may deem fit to impose. 
 
(14) Notwithstanding any provision of this Act, where any person 
has committed an offence liable to penalty or punishment under this Act, the 
2[Commissioner] may, either before or after the initiation of any proceedings 
for the recovery of duty or prosecution of such person, compound the 
offence if he pays the amount of duty along with such default surcharge 
and penalty as is determined under the provisions of this Act.
---

Section 22:
23. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce 
                         
1  The words “Federal Government” substituted through Finance Act, 2019. 
2  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
39 
documents in inquiries.– (1) Any 1[officer of Inland Revenue] duly 
empowered by the Board in this behalf shall have power to summon any 
person whose attendance he considers necessary either to give evidence or 
to produce a document or any other thing or information in any inquiry 
which such officer is making for any of the purposes of this Act. 
 
(2) All persons so summoned shall be bound to attend, either in 
person or by an authorized agent, as such Officer may direct, and all 
persons so summoned shall be bound to state the truth upon any subject 
respecting which they are examined or make statements and to produce such 
documents and other things as may be required: 
Provided that the exemptions under sections 132 and 133 of the 
Code of Civil Procedure (V of 1908) shall be applicable to requisitions for 
attendance under this section. 
 
(3) Every such inquiry as aforesaid shall be deemed to be a 
"judicial proceeding" within the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of 
the Pakistan Penal Code (XLV of 1860).
---

Section 23:
24. Officers required to assist 1[officer of Inland Revenue].– 
All officers of Police and Customs, sales tax, the civil armed forces and all 
officers of Government engaged in the collection of land-revenue, and all 
village officers shall assist the 1[officer of Inland Revenue] in the execution 
of this Act as and when required by such Officers. 
                         
1  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
40 
CHAPTER IV  
 
SEARCHES, ARRESTS AND SEIZURES
---

Section 24:
25. Searches and arrests how to be made.– All searches or 
arrests made under this Act or any rules made there under and all arrests 
made under this Act shall be carried out in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898).
---

Section 25:
26. Power to seize.– 1[(1) The   counterfeited cigarettes or 
beverages which have been manufactured or produced unlawfully and 
other dutiable goods on which duty of excise has not been paid in the 
manner as required under this Act and the rules made thereunder, shall be 
liable to seizure along with the conveyance, which has been used for the 
movement, carriage or transportation of such goods.] 
 
(2) For the purpose of this section, ‘conveyance’ shall include all 
of its fixtures, fittings and accessories etc.]
---

Section 26:
27. Confiscation 2[of goods subject to federal excise duty].– (1) 
The cigarettes 1[or beverages] seized for the reasons of counterfeiting shall 
be liable to outright confiscation and shall be destroyed in the manner 
prescribed in sub-section (10) of section 19. 
 
(2) In case of 3[dutiable goods] seized on account of evasion of 
duty, the owner shall be given an option to pay penalties and fines as 
provided under section 19 and meet other obligations as provided under 
other relevant provisions of the Act and rules made there under, for release 
of such 3[dutiable goods] in lieu of confiscation provided that if such 
release is not claimed or availed, no reduction or abatement in respect of 
amounts of duty, penalties and fine shall be admissible in case such 
3[dutiable goods] are auctioned. 
 
(3) In case confiscated cigarettes 1[ , un-manufactured tobacco] are 
rendered unfit for human consumption or become otherwise unfit for sale, 
the 4[Commissioner] may allow destruction of such cigarettes 1[ , un-
                         
1 Sub-section (1) substituted by Finance Act, 2020. 
2 Marginal note expression substituted by Finance Act, 2020. 
3 Expression substituted by Finance Act, 2020. 
4 
Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
41 
manufactured tobacco] in such manner as he may deem appropriate.
---

Section 27:
28. Power to release seized conveyance.– (1) Where any 
conveyance is seized which is liable to confiscation, the adjudicating 
authority may, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, order its 
release pending adjudication of the case and on furnishing a guarantee by the 
owner of the seized conveyance, from a scheduled bank valid for at least 
one year equal to the value of such conveyance. 
 
(2) In respect of cases pending before the Special Judge, release of 
conveyance under sub-section (1) shall not be allowed without prior 
permission of the Special Judge. 
                                                             
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
42 
CHAPTER V 
POWERS, ADJUDICATION AND APPEALS
---

Section 28:
29. Appointment of Federal excise officers and delegation of 
powers.—1[(1) For the purposes of this Act and rules made there under, the 
Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, appoint, in relation to 
any area or jurisdiction specified in the notification, any person to be – 
 
(a) 
Chief Commissioner Inland Revenue; 
(b) 
Commissioner Inland Revenue; 
(c) 
Commissioner Inland Revenue (Appeals); 
(d) 
Additional Commissioner Inland Revenue; 
(e) 
Deputy Commissioner Inland Revenue;  
2[(ea) District Taxation Officer Inland Revenue]; 
(f) 
Assistant Commissioner Inland Revenue; 
2[(fa) Assistant Director Audit Inland Revenue]; 
(g) 
Inland Revenue Officer; 
(h) 
Superintendent Inland Revenue; 
(i) 
Inspector Inland Revenue; 
(j) 
Inland revenue Audit Officer; and 
(k) 
Officer of Inland Revenue with any other designation.] 
 
 
 
3[(1A) The Chief Commissioner Inland Revenue and Commissioner 
Inland Revenue (Appeals) shall be subordinate to the Board and 
Commissioner Inland Revenue shall be subordinate to the Chief 
Commissioner Inland Revenue. 
 
                         
1 
Sub-section (1) substituted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Clauses (ea) & (fa) added by Finance Act, 2017 
3 
Section (1A), (1B) and (1C) inserted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was 
made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 
6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was 
presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this 
amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. 
XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 
229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
43 
 1[(1AA) The Chief Commissioners Inland Revenue shall perform their 
functions in respect of such persons or classes of persons or such areas as 
the Board may direct. 
 
 
4(1AB) The Commissioners Inland Revenue shall perform their 
functions in respect of such persons or classes of persons or such areas as 
the Chief Commissioner, to whom they are sub-ordinate, may direct.] 
 
 
(1B) Additional 
Commissioner 
Inland 
Revenue, 
Deputy 
Commissioner Inland Revenue 
2[, District Taxation Officer Inland 
Revenue], Assistant Commissioners Inland Revenue Officers 3[, Assistant 
Director Audit Inland Revenue], Inspector Inland Revenue and Officers of 
Inland Revenue with any other designation shall be subordinate to the 
Commissioner Inland Revenue and shall perform their functions in respect of 
such persons or classes of persons or such areas as the Commissioners, to 
whom they are subordinate, may direct. 
 
 
(1C) Deputy Commissioners Inland Revenue 1[, District Taxation 
Officer Inland Revenue], Assistant Commissioners Inland Revenue 1[, 
Assistant Director Audit Inland Revenue], Inland Revenue Officers, 
Superintendents Inland Revenue, Inland Revenue Audit Officers, Inspectors 
Inland Revenue, and Officers of Inland Revenue with any other designation 
shall be subordinate top the Additional Commissioner Inland Revenue.] 
 
(2) Notwithstanding the other designations of the officers of 
Federal Excise used in this Act or the rules made there under: 
 
(a) the Directorate General (Intelligence & Investigation) 4[Inland 
Revenue] shall consist of a Director General and as many 
Directors, Additional Directors, Deputy Directors and Assistant 
Directors and other officers with any other designation as the 
Board may appoint by notification in the official Gazette; 
 
 
5[(aa) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette,– 
                         
1  Sub-sections (1AA) & (1AB) added by Finance Act, 2017 
2  The expression inserted by Finance Act, 2017 
3  The expressions inserted by Finance Act, 2017 
4  Substituted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
5  New clause “aa” added by Finance Act, 2018. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
44 
 
(i) specify the functions and jurisdiction of the Directorate 
General and its officers; and 
(ii) confer the powers of authorities specified in 1[sub-
section (1) of section 29] upon the Directorate General 
and its officers]; 
 
(b) the Directorate General 2[***] Internal Audit shall consist of a 
Director General and as many Directors, Additional Directors, 
Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors and other officers 
with any other designation as the Board may appoint by 
notification in the official Gazette; 3[***] 
 
(c) the 4[Inland Revenue Services Academy] shall consist of a 
Director General and as many Directors, Additional Directors, 
Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors and other officers with 
any other designation as the Board may appoint by notification 
in the official Gazette5; [and] 
           6[(d)  the Directorate General of Digital Initiatives shall consist of a 
Director General and as many Directors, Additional Directors, 
Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors and such other 
officers as the Board may, by notification in the official 
Gazette, appoint.] 
 
 
(3) 
7[The Board or the Chief Commissioner with the approval of 
the Board, may], empower by name or designation,— 
 
 
(a) any 8[Additional Commissioner Inland Revenue] or 1[Deputy 
                         
1  Words substituted by Finance Supplementary (Second Amendment) Act, 2019 
2  Omitted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
3 Word omitted by Finance Act, 2023  
4 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2022. 
5 For full stop semi colon substituted and word “and” added by Finance Act, 2023  
6 New clause added by Finance Act, 2023 
7 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2010. 
8  Substituted for “Additional Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was 
made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 
6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was 
presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this 
amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. 
XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 
229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
45 
Commissioner Inland Revenue] to exercise any of the powers of 
a 2[Commissioner Inland Revenue]; 
 
(b) any 4[Deputy Commissioner Inland Revenue] or 3[Assistant 
Commissioner Inland Revenue] to exercise any of the powers 
of an 4[Additional Commissioner Inland Revenue]; 
 
(c) any 5[Assistant Commissioner Inland Revenue]  to exercise any 
of the powers of a 6[Deputy Commissioner Inland Revenue]; 
and 
                                                             
1  Substituted for “Deputy Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was 
made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 
6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was 
presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this 
amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. 
XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 
229 to 259 
2  Substituted for “Collector of Federal Excise” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
3  Substituted for “Assistant Collector of Federal Excise” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 june 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
4  Substituted for “Additional Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was 
made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 
6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was 
presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this 
amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. 
XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 
229 to 259 
5  Substituted for “Assistant Collector of Federal Excise” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
6  Substituted for “Deputy Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was 
made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 
6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was 
presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this 
amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. 
XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 
229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
46 
 
(d) any other 1[officer of Inland Revenue] to exercise any of the 
powers of a 2[Commissioner Inland Revenue], 1[Additional 
Commissioner Inland Revenue], 
3[Deputy Commissioner 
Inland Revenue] or 2[Assistant Commissioner Inland Revenue]; 
under this Act and the rules made there under. 
 
3[ 4 *** ] 
 
(5) The officer to whom any powers of any senior officer are 
delegated under this section shall not further delegate such powers.
---

Section 29:
30. Use of powers of subordinate officer.— (1) An officer 
appointed under this Act shall exercise such powers and discharge such duties 
as are conferred or imposed on him under this Act and he shall also be 
competent to exercise all powers and discharge all duties or functions 
conferred or imposed upon any officer subordinate to him. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the rules 
made there under, the Board may, by general or special order, impose such 
limitations or conditions on the exercise of such powers and discharge of 
such duties by any 4[officer of Inland Revenue]as it deems fit. 
 5[  31***] 
                         
1  Substituted for “Officer of Inland Revenue” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Substituted for “Collector of Federal Excise” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
3 
 Sub-section (4) omitted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. 
4  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
5  Section (31) omitted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by Finance 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
47
---

Section 30:
32. Option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation of conveyance.– 
Wherever confiscation is adjudged under this Act or the rules made there 
under, the officer adjudging it may give the owner of the conveyance an 
option to pay in lieu of confiscation such fine as the officer thinks fit.
---

Section 31:
33. Appeals to 1[Commissioner] (Appeals).— 2[(1)] Any person 
other than Federal Excise officer aggrieved by any decision or order passed 
under this Act or the rules made there under by a 1[officer of Inland 
Revenue up to the rank of 3[Additional Commissioner Inland Revenue], 
other than a decision or order or notice given or action taken for recovery of 
the arrears of duty under this Act or rules made there under may within 
thirty days of receipt of such decision or order prefer appeal there from to the 
3[Commissioner] (Appeals). 
 
4[(1A) where in a particular case, the Commissioner (Appeals) is of 
the opinion that the recovery of tax levied under this Act, shall cause 
undue hardship to the taxpayer, he, after affording opportunity of being 
heard to the Commissioner or officer of Inland Revenue against whose 
order appeal has been made, may stay the recovery of such tax for a period 
not exceeding thirty days in aggregate.] 
 
 
5[(1B) 
An appeal under sub-section (1) shall– 
(a) 
be in the prescribed form; 
(b) 
be verified in the prescribed manner;  
                                                             
(Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
1  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Numbered vide Finance Act, 2006. 
3  Substituted for “Additional Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was 
made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 
6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was 
presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this 
amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. 
XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 
229 to 259. 
4  Sub section (1A) inserted vid Finance Act, 2013. 
5    New sub-sections (1B) and (1C) inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
48 
(c) 
state precisely the grounds upon which the appeal is 
made; 
(d) 
be accompanied by the prescribed fee specified in 
sub-section (1C); and  
(e) 
be filed with the Commissioner (Appeals) within 
the time set out in sub-section (1). 
 
(1C) 
The prescribed fee shall be– 
(a) 
in the case of an appeal against an assessment– 
(i) 
where the appellant is a company, 
five thousand rupees; or 
(ii) 
where 
the 
appellant 
is 
not 
a 
company, two thousand and five hundred 
rupees; and  
(b) 
in any other case– 
(i) 
where appellant is a company, five 
thousand rupees; or 
 
  
(ii) 
where 
the 
appellant 
is 
not 
a 
company, one thousand rupees.] 
 
 
1[(2) The 2[Commissioner] (Appeals) may, after giving both parties 
to the appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such order as he thinks 
fit, confirming, varying, altering, setting aside or annulling the decision or 
order appealed against 3[:] 
4[Provided that such order shall be passed not later than [one 
hundred and twenty] days from the date of filing of appeal or within such 
extended period, not exceeding 5[sixty] days, as the 2[Commissioner] 
(Appeals) may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend.] 
 6[Provided further that any period during which the proceeding are 
                         
1  Added vide Finance Act, 2006. 
2  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
3  Full stop substituted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
4  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
5  Substituted vide Finance Act, 2009. 
6  Added vide Finance Act, 2009. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
49 
adjourned on account of stay order or Alternative Dispute Resolution 
proceedings or the time taken through adjournment by the petitioner not 
exceeding thirty days shall be excluded for the computation of these 
period.] 
 
(3) In deciding an appeal, the 2[Commissioner]  (Appeals) may 
make such further inquiry as may be necessary provided that he shall not 
remand the case for de novo consideration.] 
 
1[(4) The 
Commissioner 
(Appeals) 
shall 
not 
admit 
any 
documentary material or evidence which was not produced before the 
Officer Inland Revenue unless the Commissioner (Appeals) is satisfied 
that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from producing such 
material or evidence before the Officer Inland Revenue.]
---

Section 32:
34. Appeals to the Appellate Tribunal 2[***].–– (1) Any person 
or 3[officer of Inland Revenue] aggrieved by any of the following orders 
may within sixty days of the receipt of such orders file appeal to the 
Appellate Tribunal against such orders,– 
 
(a) an order passed by the 2[Commissioner] (Appeals); and 
 
(b) an order passed by the Board or the Commissioner Inland 
Revenue under section 35: 
Provided that the Appellate Tribunal shall decide the appeal filed 
under this sub-section within six months of its filing. 
 4[(2)***] 
 
5[(3) The Appellate Tribunal may admit, hear and dispose of the 
appeal as per procedure laid down in sections 131 and 132 of the Income 
                         
1 New sub-section (4) inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
2  Words “and Reference to High Court” omitted by Finance Act, 2011. 
3  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 june 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
4  Sub-section (2) omitted by Finance Act, 2010. 
5 New sub-section (3) inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
50 
Tax Ordinance, 2001 (XLIX of 2001), and rules made thereunder.] 
 
1[34A. Reference to High Court.– (1) Within ninety days of the 
communication of the order of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (2A) of 
section 34, the aggrieved person or the Commissioner may preference 
application, in the prescribed form along with a statement of the case, to the High 
Court, stating any question of law arising out of such order.  
 
(2) The statement to the High Court referred to in sub-section (1), shall 
set out the facts, the determination of the Appellate Tribunal and the question of 
law which arises out of its order. 
 
(3) Where, on an application made under sub-section (1), the High 
Court is satisfied that a question of law arises out of the order referred to in sub-
section (1), it may proceed to hear the case. 
 
(4) A reference to the High Court under this section shall be heard by a 
Bench of not less than two judges of the High Court and, in respect of the 
reference , the provisions of section 98 of the Code  of Civil Procedure, 1908 
(Act V of 1908), shall apply. 
 
(5) The High Court upon hearing a reference under this section shall 
decide the question of law raised by the reference and pass judgment thereon 
specifying the grounds on which such judgment is based and the Tribunal’s order 
shall stand modified accordingly. The Court shall send a copy of the Judgment 
under the seal of the Court to the Appellate Tribunal. 
 
(6) Notwithstanding that a reference has been made to the High Court, 
the tax shall be payable in accordance with the order of the Appellate Tribunal. 
 
(7) Where recovery of tax has been stayed by the High Court by an 
order, such order shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of six 
month following the day on which it was made unless the appeal is decided or 
such order is withdrawn by the High Court earlier. 
 
(8) Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1908 (IX of 1908), shall apply to 
an application made to the High Court under sub-section (1). 
 
(9) An application under sub-section (1) by a person other than the 
                         
1  Section 34A inserted by Finance Act, 2010. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
51 
Commissioner shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred rupees.]
---

Section 33:
35. Powers of Board or 1[Commissioner] to pass certain 
orders.– (1) The Board or the 2[Commissioner] within his jurisdiction, may 
suo moto 2[, or otherwise] call for and examine the records of any 
proceedings under this Act for the purpose of satisfying itself or, as the case 
may be, himself as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed 
by a subordinate officer and may pass such order as it or he may think fit. 
 
(2) No order confiscating goods of greater value or enhancing any 
fine, or imposing or enhancing any penalty, or requiring payment of any duty 
not levied or short-levied shall be passed under sub-section (1) unless the 
person affected thereby has been given an opportunity of showing cause 
against it and of being heard in person or through a counsel or other person 
duly authorized by him. 
 
(3) No record of any proceedings relating to any decision or order 
passed by any 3[officer of Inland Revenue] shall be called for or examined 
under subsection (1) after the expiry of two years from the date of such 
decision or order. 
 
4[Explanation.– For the purpose of sections 35, 45 and 46 and for 
removal of doubt, it is declared that the powers of the Board, Commissioner 
or officer of Inland Revenue under these sections are independent of the 
powers of the Board under section 42B and nothing contained in section 42B 
restrict the powers of the Board, Commissioner or officer of Inland Revenue 
under these sections or to conduct audit under these sections.] 
                         
1  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Comma and words inserted by Finance Act, 2015. 
3  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
4  Explanation inserted by Finance Act, 2013. It aims at nullifying judgments of higher courts, see under 
section 42B. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
52
---

Section 34:
36. Power to rectify mistakes in orders.– The Federal 
Government, the Board or any 1[officer of Inland Revenue]  may rectify any 
mistake which is apparent from the record in any order passed by it or him 
under any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made there under, on its 
or his own motion or on an application made by a person affected by the 
order within three years of the passing of such order provided that no such 
rectification which has the effect of enhancing any penalty or fine or 
requiring the payment of a greater amount of duty shall be made unless the 
person affected by the proposed rectification has been given an 
opportunity of being heard.
---

Section 35:
37. Deposit, pending appeal, of duty demanded or penalty 
levied.– 
 
(1) Where in any appeal, the decision or order appealed against 
relates to any duty demanded or penalty imposed under this Act, the 
person desirous of appealing against such decision or order shall, pending 
the appeal, deposit the duty demanded or the penalty imposed provided that 
the Appellate Tribunal or 2[Commissioner] (Appeals) may in any particular 
case dispense with such deposit subject to such conditions as it may deem fit 
to impose so as to safeguard the interest of revenue. 
 
(2) The order for such dispensation under sub-section (1) shall cease 
to have effect on the expiration of a period of six months following the date 
on which order for dispensation was passed or until the order of dispensation 
is withdrawn earlier or the case is finally decided earlier by the Appellate 
Tribunal or 1[Commissioner] (Appeals). 
 
(3) Notwithstanding sub-sections (1) and (2), the Appellate 
Tribunal or 1[Commissioner] (Appeals) may direct that, pending decision 
                         
1  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
53 
on the appeal, the duty demanded or penalty imposed, alongwith the default 
surcharge payable under this Act, be paid by the appellant in suitable 
installments spread over a period not exceeding six months from the date of 
such direction: 
Provided that where a person has, at the time of filing appeal, 
deposited fifteen per cent of the liability covered under the decision or 
order appealed against, he shall not be required to separately seek stay 
against recovery and stay in such a case shall commence from the date of 
payment of such fifteen per cent amount and shall remain valid till the 
expiry of a period of six months or till the decision of the appeal, whichever 
is earlier unless the case is decided in his favour and the amount so paid is 
claimed to have become due for refund 1[:] 
 
1[Provided further that the Commissioner Inland Revenue or any 
officer of Inland Revenue subordinate to him shall not issue notice under 
this section or recovery rules made under the Federal Excise Rules, 2005 
for recovery of any tax due from a taxpayer if the said taxpayer has filed 
an appeal under section 33 in respect of the order under which the tax 
sought to be recovered has become payable and the appeal has not been 
decided by the Commissioner (Appeals), subject to the condition that 
2[ten] per cent of the said amount of tax due has been paid by the 
taxpayer.] 
 
3[38. Alternative Dispute Resolution. -- (1) Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this Act, or the rules made thereunder, an aggrieved 
person in connection with any dispute pertaining to—  
 
 
(a) the liability of duty of one hundred million rupees or  
 
 
above against the aggrieved person or admissibility of  
 
 
refund, as the case may be;  
 
 
(b) the extent of waiver of default surcharge and penalty; or  
 
 
 
(c) any other specific relief required to resolve the dispute, 
may apply to the Board for the appointment of a committee for the 
                         
1  Colon & new proviso added by Finance Act, 2017 
2  Words “ten” substituted by Finance Act, 2018. 
3 Section 38 substituted by Finance Act, 2023. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
54 
resolution of any hardship or dispute mentioned in detail in the 
application, which is under litigation in any court of law or an appellate 
authority, except where criminal proceedings have been initiated.  
 
(2) The application for dispute resolution shall be accompanied by 
an initial proposition for resolution of the dispute, including an offer of 
payment of duty.  
 
(3) The Board may, after examination of the application of an 
aggrieved person, appoint a committee, within fifteen days of receipt of 
such application in the Board, comprising,—  
 
 
(i) a retired judge not below the rank of a judge of a High 
Court, who shall also be the Chairperson of the Committee, to be 
nominated by the Board from a panel notified by the Law and Justice 
Division for such purpose;  
 
 
(ii) 
Chief 
Commissioner 
Inland 
Revenue 
having 
jurisdiction over the case; and  
 
 
(iii) person to be nominated by the registered person from a 
panel notified by the Board comprising –  
 
 
 
(a) chartered accountants, cost and management 
accountants and advocates having a minimum of ten years’ experience in 
the field of taxation;  
 
 
 
(b) officers of the Inland Revenue Service who 
stood retired in BPS 21 or above; or  
 
 
 
(c) reputable businessmen as nominated by 
Chambers of Commerce and Industry: Provided that the registered person 
shall not nominate a chartered accountant or an advocate if the said 
chartered accountant or the advocate is or has been an auditor.  
 
(4) The Board shall communicate the order of appointment of 
committee to the aggrieved person, court of law or the appellate authority 
where the dispute is pending and the concerned Commissioner.  
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
55 
(5) The committee appointed under sub-section (3) shall examine 
the issue and may, if it deems necessary, conduct inquiry, seek expert 
opinion, direct any officer of the Inland Revenue or any other person to 
conduct an audit and shall decide the dispute by majority, within forty-five 
days of its appointment extendable by another fifteen days for the reasons 
to be recorded in writing.  
 
(6) The decision by the committee under sub-section (5) shall not 
be cited or taken as a precedent in any other case or in the same case for a 
different tax year.  
 
(7) The recovery of duty payable by a registered person in 
connection with any dispute for which a committee has been appointed 
under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to have been stayed on the 
constitution of committee till the final decision or dissolution of the 
committee, whichever is earlier.  
(8) The decision of the committee under sub-section (5) shall be 
binding on the Commissioner when the aggrieved person, being satisfied 
with the decision, has withdrawn the appeal pending before the court of 
law or any appellate authority in respect of dispute as mentioned in sub-
section (1) and has communicated the order of withdrawal to the 
Commissioner:  
Provided that if the order of withdrawal is not communicated to the 
Commissioner within sixty days of the service of decision of the 
committee upon the aggrieved person, the decision of the committee shall 
not be binding on the Commissioner.  
 
(9) 
Subject to sub-section (10), the Commissioner shall also 
withdraw the appeal, if any, pending before any court of law or an 
appellate authority in respect of dispute as mentioned in sub-section (1) 
within thirty days of the communication of the order of withdrawal by the 
aggrieved person to the Commissioner.  
 
(10) 
The aggrieved person shall make the payment of federal 
excise duty and other taxes and within such time as decided by the 
committee under sub section (5) and all decisions and orders made or 
passed shall stand modified to that extent.  
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
56 
 
(11) 
If the committee fails to decide within the period of sixty 
days under sub-section (5), the Board shall dissolve the committee by an 
order in writing and the matter shall be decided by the court of law or the 
appellate authority where the dispute is pending under litigation.  
 
(12) 
The Board shall communicate the order of dissolution of 
the committee to the aggrieved person, court of law or the appellate 
authority and the Commissioner. 
 
(13) 
On receipt of the order of dissolution of the committee, the 
court of law or the appellate authority shall decide the appeal within six 
months of the communication of said order.  
 
(14) 
The Board may prescribe the amount to be paid as 
remuneration for the services of the members of the committee, other than 
the member appointed under clause (ii) of sub-section (3).  
 
(15) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this section.]
---

Section 36:
39. Exclusion of time taken for copy.– In computing the period 
of limitation specified for an appeal or application under this Chapter, the 
day on which the order complained was served, and if the party preferring 
the appeal or making the application was not furnished with a copy of the 
order when the notice of the order was served upon him, the time requisite 
for obtaining a copy of such order shall be excluded. 
 
CHAPTER VI  
 
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
---

Section 37:
40. Power of Board to make rules.– (1) The Board may make 
rules to carry into effect the purposes of any or all the provisions of this Act 
including charging fee for processing of returns, claims and other 
documents and for preparation of copies thereof. 
 
(2) In making rules under this section, the Board may provide that 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
57 
any person committing a breach of any rule shall, without prejudice to any 
other action that may be taken against him under this Act, be liable to such 
penalty as may be prescribed under the rules and that any article in respect of 
which any such breach is committed shall be confiscated or destroyed. 
 
(3) The Board may, in respect of cigarettes, make rules or issue 
instructions for the purpose of affixing duty stamps and banderoles and any 
instructions issued in this behalf shall have the force of rules issued under this 
Act. 
           1[(4)   All rules made under sub-section (1) or any other provisions 
of this Act, shall be collected, arranged and published along with general 
orders and departmental instructions and rulings, if any, at appropriate 
intervals and sold to the public at reasonable price or may be placed 
regularly on the official website maintained by the Board.]
---

Section 38:
41. Bar of suit and limitation of suit and other legal 
proceedings.– (1) No suit shall be brought in any civil court to set aside or 
modify any order passed, or any assessment, levy or collection of any duty, 
under this Act. 
 
(2) No suit prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against 
the Federal Government or against any officer of the Government in respect 
of any order passed in good faith or any act in good faith done or ordered 
to be done under this Act. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything in any other law for the time being 
in force, no investigation or inquiry shall be undertaken or initiated by any 
governmental agency against any officer or official for anything done in his 
official capacity under this Act, rules, instructions or direction made or issued 
there under without the prior approval of the Board.
---

Section 39:
42. Observance of Board's orders, directions and instructions.– 
All officers and persons employed in the execution of this Act and the rules 
made there under shall observe and follow the orders, directions and 
instructions of the Board provided that no such order, direction or 
instruction shall be given by the Board so as to interfere with the discretion 
of an officer in deciding the issues or matters brought before him for 
                         
1 New sub-section added by Finance Act, 2023. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
58 
adjudication under this Act or rules made there under. 
 
1[42A. Reference to authorities.– Any reference to Collector, 
Additional 
Collector, 
Deputy 
Collector, 
Assistant 
Collector, 
Superintendent and an officer of federal excise, wherever occurring, in 
this Act and the rules Notifications, clarifications, general orders or orders 
made or issued there under, shall be construed as reference to 
Commissioner Inland Revenue,  Additional Commissioner Inland 
Revenue, Deputy Commissioner Inland Revenue, Assistant Commissioner 
Inland Revenue, Superintendent Inland Revenue and an officer of inland 
Revenue, respectively. 
 
2[42B. Selection for audit by the Board.– (1) The Board may select 
persons or classes of persons for audit of records and documents through 
computer ballot which may be random or parametric as the Board may 
deem fit. 
 
3[(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other 
law, for the time being in force, the Board shall keep the parameters 
confidential.] 
 
(2) Audit of such persons selected under sub-section (1) shall be 
conducted as per procedure given in section 46 and all the provisions of 
Act shall apply accordingly. 
 
(3) For the removal of doubt, it is hereby declared that Board 
shall be deemed always to have had, the power to select any persons or 
classes of persons for audit.] 
 
4[42C. Reward to Inland Revenue officers and officials.– (1) In 
cases involving concealment or evasion of excise duty and other taxes, 
cash reward shall be sanctioned to the officers and officials of Inland 
Revenue for their meritorious conduct in such cases and to the informer 
                         
1 
Section 42A and 42B inserted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
2 Section 42B inserted by Finance Act, 2010. 
3 New sub-section (1A) inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
4  Section 42C inserted by Finance Act, 2013.  
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
59 
providing credible information leading to such detection, as may be 
prescribed by the Board, only after realization of part or whole of the taxes 
involved in such cases. 
 
(1) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, 
prescribe the procedure in this behalf and specify the apportionment of 
reward sanctioned under this section for individual performance or to 
collective welfare of the officers and officials of Inland Revenue.] 
 
1[42D. Reward to whistleblowers.-(1) The Board may sanction 
reward to whistleblowers in cases of concealment or evasion of duty, 
corruption or misconduct providing credible information leading to such 
detection of evasion of duty. 
 
(2) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, 
prescribe the procedure in this behalf and also specify the apportionment 
of reward sanctioned under this section for whistleblowers. 
 
(3) The claim for reward by the whistleblower shall be rejected, 
if- 
 
(a) the information provided is of no value; 
 
(b) the Board already had the information; 
 
(c) the information was available in public records; or 
 
(d) no collection of duty is made from the information provided 
from which the Board can pay the reward. 
(4) 
For the purpose of this section, “whistleblower” means a 
person who reports concealment or evasion of duty leading to detection or 
collection of duty, corruption or misconduct, to the competent authority 
having power to take action against the person or a federal excise 
authority committing fraud, corruption, misconduct, or involved in 
concealment or evasion of duty.]
---

Section 40:
43. Removal of difficulties and condonation of time limit etc.— 
(1) If any difficulty or situation arises in giving effect to or applying the 
provisions of this Act or the rules made or notifications issued there under, 
                         
1  Section 42D added by Finance Act, 2015. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
60 
the Board may, through a general order or otherwise, issue instructions or 
directions for such actions to be taken by an officer of 1[Federal Excise] or 
any other person as it considers necessary or expedient for the purpose of 
removing the difficulty or tackling such situation and every such officer or 
person shall be bound to comply with such instructions or directions in such 
manner as may be specified therein. 
 
(2)  Where any time or period has been specified under any of the 
provisions of this Act or rules made there under within which any 
application is to be made or any act or thing is to be done, the Board may 
2[at any time before or after the expiry of such time or period], in any case 
or class of cases, permit such application to be made or such act or thing to 
done within such time or period as it may consider appropriate provided that 
the Board may subject to such limitations or conditions as may be specified 
therein, empower any 3[Commissioner]  or other 4[officer of Inland 
Revenue] to exercise the powers under this subsection in any case or class 
of cases. 
 
5[Explanation.– For the purpose of this section, the expression 
“any act or thing is to be done” includes any act or thing to be done by the 
registered person or by the authorities specified in section 29 of this Act.] 
 
 
 
6[43A. Issuance of duplicate of 7[Federal Excise] documents.– An 
                         
1  Words “Inland Revenue” substituted for Federal Excise by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
2 Words inserted by Finance Act, 2022. 
3  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
4  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
5  Explanation inserted by Finance Act, 2011. 
6  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
7  The “Inland Revenue” were substituted for “Federal Excise by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The 
same amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
61 
officer of federal excise not below the rank of Assistant Collector may, on 
payment of one hundred rupees, issue an attested duplicate of any 5[federal 
excise] document as is available with the department or has been filed 
under this Act or rules made there under to a relevant registered person 
applying for the same.]
---

Section 41:
44. Refund of duty.—(1) No refund of any amount of duty 
accrued for any reason under this Act or rules made there under shall be 
allowed unless claimed within one year of its accrual. 
 
 
(2) In a case where a registered person did not avail adjustment of 
duty admissible at the relevant time, the 1[Commissioner] may allow such 
person to avail the adjustment at any subsequent time provided that claim 
for such adjustment is made within a period of one year from the date on 
which it was admissible. 
 
(3) In a case where claim for refund or adjustment has accrued in 
consequence of any decision or judgment of any Federal Excise Officer, the 
Tribunal or Court, the period of one year, for the purpose of this section, 
shall be computed from the date of such decision or judgment. 
 
2[44A. Delayed refund.- Where a refund due under section 44 is not made 
within the time specified in this behalf, there shall be paid to the claimant, in 
addition the amount of refund due to him, a further sum equal to KIBOR per 
annum of the amount of refund due, from the date following the expiry of the 
time specified as aforesaid, to the day preceding the day of payment of refund:  
 
Provided that where there is a reason to believe that a person has claimed 
the refund which is not admissible to him, he shall not be entitled to additional 
amount unless the investigation of his claim is completed.]
---

Section 42:
45. Access to records and posting of excise staff, etc.— (1)    A 
person who is required to maintain any record or documents under this Act 
                                                             
of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
1  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2009. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
62 
or any other law shall, as and when required by the 1[officer of Inland 
Revenue] produce record or documents which are in his possession or 
control or in the possession or control of his agent and where such record or 
documents have been kept on electronic data, he shall allow access to such 
officer to have access and use of any machine on which such data is kept 
and shall facilitate such officer to retrieve whole or part of such data in such 
manner and to such extent as may be required by him. 
 
(2) Subject to such conditions and restrictions, as deemed fit to 
specify, the Board 2[***] may, post 3[officer of Inland Revenue] to the 
premises of registered person or class of such persons to monitor production, 
removal or sale of goods and the stock position or the maintenance of 
records 3[.] 
 
2[***] 
 
 
4[(3) The Board may, by notification in the official Gazette, for the 
purpose to monitor production or manufacture of any goods, specify the 
manner and procedure for appointment and posting of technical staff and 
installation, operation, maintenance of close circuit T.V system anywhere 
in the factory premises.] 
 
 
5[45A. Monitoring or tracking by electronic or other means.– (1) 
Subject to such conditions, restriction and procedures as it may deem fit to 
impose or specify, the Board may, by notification ion the official Gazette, 
specify any registered person or class of registered persons or any goods 
or class of goods in respect of which monitoring or tracking of production, 
sales, clearance, stocks or any other related activity may be implemented 
through electronic or other means as may be prescribed. 
 
 
(2) From such date, as may be prescribed by the Board, no 
                         
1  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Words “or Chief Commissioner” omitted by Finance Act, 2018. 
3  Full stop inserted and proviso omitted by Finance Act, 2018. 
4  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
5  Section 45A inserted by Finance Act, 2013. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
63 
excisable goods shall be removed or sold by the manufacturer or any other 
person without affixing tax stamp, banderole, stickers, labels, 1[barcodes,] 
etc. in any such form, style and manner as may be prescribed by the Board 
in this behalf.] 
 
 
2[(3) Such tax stamps, banderoles, stickers, labels, barcodes etc., 
shall be acquired by the registered person referred to in sub-section (2) 
from a licensee appointed by the Board for the purpose, against price 
approved by the Board, which shall include the cost of equipment installed 
by such licensee in the premises of the said registered person.] 
 
3[45AA. Licensing of brand name.- (1) Manufacturers of the 
specified goods shall be required to obtain brand licence for each brand or 
stock keeping unit (SKU) in such manner as may be prescribed by the 
Board.  
(2) 
Any specified brand and SKU found to be sold without obtaining a 
licence from the Board shall be deemed counterfeit goods and liable to 
outright confiscation and destruction in the prescribed manner and such 
destruction and confiscation shall be without prejudice to any other penal 
action which may be taken under this Act.]
---

Section 43:
46. 
4[***] Audit.— (1) The 
5[officer of Inland Revenue] 
authorized by the Board 6[or the Commissioner] by designation may, once 
in a year, after giving advance notice in writing, conduct audit of the 
records and documents of any person registered under this Act. 
 
(2) In case the 7[Commissioner] has information or sufficient 
                         
1  Word and comma inserted by Finance Act, 2015. 
2  Sub-section (3) added by Finance Act, 2015. 
3 New Section 45AA inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
4  Word “Departmental” omitted by Finance Act, 2015. 
5  Substituted for “Federal Excise Officer” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment 
was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated 
February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This 
Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
6  Words inserted by Finance Act, 2010. 
7  Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
64 
evidence showing that such registered person is involved in fraud or 
evasion of duty, he may authorize a Federal Excise Officer, not below the 
rank of 1[Assistant Commissioner], to conduct audit at any time in a year. 
 
2[(2A) After completion of the audit under this section or any other 
provision of law, the officer of Inland Revenue may, after obtaining the 
registered person’s explanation on all the issues raised in the audit shall 
pass an order under section 14, imposing the amount of duty as per law, 
charging default surcharge, imposing penalty and recovery of any amount 
erroneously refunded.] 
 
(3) Notwithstanding the penalties prescribed in section 19, if a 
registered person wishes to deposit the amount of duty not paid, short paid or 
the amount of duty evaded along with default surcharge voluntarily, 
whenever it comes to his notice, before commencement of audit, no penalty 
shall be recovered from him: 
Provided that if a registered person wishes to deposit the amount of 
duty not paid, short paid or amount of duty evaded along with default 
surcharge during or after the audit but before the 3[determination of liability 
under sub-section (2A)] conclusion of original adjudication proceedings, he 
may deposit such amount along with twenty five percent of the amount of 
penalty prescribed under this Act or the rules made there under and in such 
case, further proceedings in the case shall abate.  
 
4[(4) The Board may appoint as many special audit panels as may 
be necessary, comprising two or more members from the following – 
 
 
(a) an officer or officers of Inland Revenue; 
 
 
(b) a firm of Chartered Accountants as defined under the 
                                                             
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259 
1  Substituted for “Assistant Collector of Federal Excise” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same 
amendment was made by Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 
2010, dated February 6, 2010, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. 
This Ordinance was presented in the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. 
Originally this amendment was made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as 
Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary 
Part I at pages 229 to 259 
2  Sub-section (2A) inserted by Finance Act, 2010. 
3  Substituted for “conclusion of original adjudication proceedings” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010 
4  Substituted for sub-section (4) by Finance Act, 2015. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
65 
Chartered Accountants Ordinance, 1961 (X of 1961); 
 
 
 
(c) a firm of Cost and Management Accountants as defined under 
the Cost and Management Accountants Act, 1966 (XIV of 
1966); or  
 
 
(d) any other person as directed by the Board,  
 
 
 to conduct audit of a registered person or persons, including 
audit of refund claims and forensic audit and the scope of 
such audit shall be determined by the Board or the 
Commissioner Inland Revenue on a case-to-case basis. In 
addition, the Board may, where it considers appropriate, also 
get such audit conducted jointly with similar audits being 
conducted by provincial administrations of sales tax on 
services.] 
 
 
1[(5) Each special audit panel shall be headed by a chairman who 
shall be an officer of Inland Revenue; 
 
 
(6) If any one member of the special audit panel, other than the 
chairman, is absent from conducting an audit, the proceedings of the audit 
may continue and the audit conducted by the special audit panel shall not 
be invalid or be called in question merely on the ground of such absence. 
 
 
(7) The Board may prescribe rules in respect of constitution, 
procedure and working of special audit panel. 
 
 
(8) Every member of the special audit panel shall have the 
powers of officers of Inland Revenue under sections 23 and 45 and sub-
sections (1) to (3) of section 46.] 
 
 
2[9] The audit of the registered person shall generally be a 
composite audit covering all duties and taxes to which his business or 
activity is liable under the laws administered by the Board. 
 
                         
1  Sub-sections (5), (6), (7) and (8) inserted by Finance Act, 2015. 
2  Sub-section (5) re-numbered as sub-section (9) by Finance Act, 2015. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
66 
1[***] 
 
 
2[47. Service 
of 
notices 
and 
other 
documents.–– 
(1)
Subject to this Act, any notice, order or requisition required to be served 
on a resident individual other than in a representative capacity for the 
purposes of this Act shall be treated as properly served on the individual 
if–  
  
 
(a) personally served on the individual or, in the case of an 
individual under a legal disability or a non-resident individual, 
the representative as defined in section 172 of the Income Tax 
Ordinance, 2001 (XLIX of 2001) of the individual; 
 
 
(b) sent by registered post or courier service to the place specified in 
clause (b) of sub-section (2) or to the individual’s usual or last 
known address in Pakistan; or 
 
 
(c) served on the individual in the manner prescribed for service of a 
summons under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 
1908) 1[; or]  
 
 
3(d) sent electronically through email or to the e-folder maintained 
for the purpose of e-filing of sales tax-cum-Federal excise 
returns by the 4[registered person.] 
 
(2) Subject to this Act, any notice, order or requisition required to be 
served on any person (other than a resident individual to whom sub-section 
(1) applies) for the purposes of this Act, shall be treated as properly served on 
the person if– 
 
 
(a) personally served on the representative of the person; 
 
 
(b) sent by registered post or courier service to the person’s 
                         
1  Sub-section (10) omitted by Finance Act, 2020. 
2  Section 47 substituted by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
3  The word “or” and clause (d) added by Finance Act, 2017. 
4 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2020. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
67 
registered office or address for service of notices under this Act, 
in Pakistan, or where the person does not have such office or 
address, the notice is sent by registered post to any office or 
place of business of the [person in Pakistan; or 
 
 
(c) served on the person in the manner prescribed for service of a 
summons under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908) 
1[; or 
 
 
(d) sent electronically through email or to the e-folder maintained 
for the purpose of e-filing of sales tax-cum-Federal excise 
returns by the 1[registered person.] 
 
(3) Where as association of person is dissolved, any notice, order or 
requisition required to be served under this Act, on the association may be 
served on any person who was the principal officer or a member of the 
association immediately before such dissolution. 
 
(4) Where, business stands discontinued, any notice, order or 
requisition required to be served under this Act, on the person discontinuing 
the business may be served on the person personally or any individual who 
was the person’s representative at the time of discontinuance, 
 
(5) The validity of any service of a notice under this Act, shall not 
be called into question after the notice has been complied with in any 
manner.]                
                                                                                                                                                                 
 
2[47A. Agreements for the exchange of information 
3[or 
assistance in recovery of duties.]– (1) The Federal Government may 
enter into bilateral or multilateral agreements with provincial governments 
or with governments of foreign countries for the exchange of information, 
including electronic exchange of information, with respect to excise duty 
imposed under this Act or any other law of Pakistan, or under the 
corresponding laws of that country and may, by notification in the official 
Gazette, make such provisions as may be necessary for implementing such 
agreements. 
                         
1  The word “or” and clause (d) added by Finance Act, 2017. 
2  Sections 47A and 47B added by Finance Act, 2015. 
3 Words inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
68 
 
 
1[(1A)  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Board 
shall have power to share data or information including real time data 
videos, images received under the provisions of this Act with any other 
Ministry or Division of the Federal Government or Provincial 
Government, subject to such limitations and conditions an may be 
specified by the Board.] 
 
 
(2) The provisions of section 107 of the Income Tax Ordinance, 
2001 (XLIX of 2001) shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to this section. 
 
2[(3) 
The Federal Government may enter into a bilateral or 
multilateral convention, and inter-governmental agreement or similar 
agreement or mechanism for assistance in the recovery of duties.] 
 
 
3[47AB. Real-time access to information and databases.─ (1) 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, 
including but not limited to the National Database and Registration 
Authority Ordinance, 2000 (Ordinance VIII of 2000) and the Emigration 
Ordinance, 1979 (Ordinance XVIII of 1979), arrangements shall be made 
to provide real-time access of information and database to the Board in the 
prescribed form and manner by– 
(a) 
the National Database and Registration Authority with 
respect to information pertaining to National Identity Card 
(NIC), Pakistan Origin Card, Overseas Identity Card, Alien 
Registration Card and other particulars contained in the 
citizen database; 
(b) 
the Federal Investigation Agency and the Bureau of 
Emigration and Overseas Employment with respect to 
details of international travel; 
(c) 
the Islamabad Capital Territory and provincial  and local 
land record and development authorities with respect to 
record-of-rights including digitized edition of record-of-
rights, periodic record, record of mutations and report of 
acquisition of rights; 
                         
1 New sub-section (1A) inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
2 New sub-section (3) inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
3 New section 47AB inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
69 
(d) 
the Islamabad Capital Territory and provincial excise and 
taxation departments with respect to information regarding 
registration of vehicles, transfer of ownership and other 
associated record; 
(e) 
all electricity suppliers and gas transmission and 
distribution companies with respect to particulars of a 
consumer, the units consumed and the amount of bill 
charged or paid: 
 
Provided that where the connection is shared or is 
used by a person other than the owner, the name and NIC 
of the owner and the user shall also be furnished: 
 
Provided further that all electricity suppliers and gas 
transmission and distribution companies shall make 
arrangements by the 1st day of January, 2021 for allowing 
consumers to update the ratio of sharing of a connection or 
the particulars of users, as the case may be; and 
 
(f) 
any other agency, authority, institution or organization 
notified by the Board. 
 
(2) 
The Board shall make arrangements for laying the 
infrastructure for real-time access to information and database under sub-
section (1) and aligning it with its own database in the manner as may be 
prescribed. 
 
(3) 
Until real-time access to information and database is made 
available under sub-section (1), such information and data shall be 
provided periodically in such form and manner as may be prescribed. 
 
 
 (4)  Subject to section 47B, all information received under this 
section shall be used only for tax purposes and kept confidential.] 
 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
70 
 
1[47B. Disclosure of information by a public servant.─ (1) Any 
information acquired under any provision of this Act shall be confidential 
and no public servant shall disclose any such information, except as 
provided under section 216 of the Income Tax Ordinance, 2001 (XLIX of 
2001). 
 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) and the 
Freedom of Information Ordinance, 2002 (XCVI of 2002), any 
information received or supplied in pursuance of bilateral or multilateral 
agreements with government of foreign countries for exchange of 
information under section 47A shall be confidential]. 
 
 
2[47C. Validation.– 3[(1)] All notifications and orders issued and 
notified in exercise of the powers conferred upon the Federal Government, 
before the commencement of Finance Act, 2017 shall be deemed to have 
been validly issued and notified in exercise of those powers.] 
 
 
3[(2) Notwithstanding any omission, irregularity or deficiency in 
the establishment of or conferment of powers and functions on the 
Directorate General (Intelligence and Investigation), Inland Revenue and 
authorities specified in clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 29 of this 
Act, all orders passed, notices issued and actions taken in exercise or 
purported exercise of the powers and functions of the Officers of Inland 
Revenue under this Act by the Director General (Intelligence and 
Investigation), Inland Revenue or the authorities specified in clause (a) of 
sub-section (2) of section 29 of this Act shall be treated to have been 
validly passed, issued and taken under this Act.]
---

Section 44:
48. Repeal.–(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the 
Central Excises Act, 1944 (I of 1944) shall stand repealed with effect from 
the date notified under sub-section (3) of section 1. 
 
(2) Unless otherwise directed by the Federal Government, in case 
of area where the repealed Act was extended through an order by a Governor 
of the Province or otherwise through an order by any other authority, the 
application of the repealed Act shall continue to be in force till this Act is 
                         
1  Section 47B substituted through Finance Act, 2016. 
2  New section 47C inserted through by Finance Act, 2017. 
3  Section 47C re-numbered and new sub-section (2) added by Finance Act, 2018. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
71 
made applicable in that area. 
 
1[49. Fee and service charges.– 2[(1)] The 3[Board with the 
approval of Federal Minster-in-charge”] may, by notification in the 
official Gazette, subject to such conditions, limitations or restrictions as it 
may deem fit to impose, levy fee and service charges for valuation, in 
respect of any other service or control mechanism provided by any 
formation under the control of the Board, including ventures of public-
private partnership, at such rates as may be specified in the notification.] 
 
4[(2) The Board may authorize and prescribe the manner in which 
fee and service charges collected under sub-section (1) shall be expended.] 
 
5[50.  Uniform.– The Board may, by notification in the official 
Gazette, prescribe rules for wearing of uniform by officers and staff of 
Inland Revenue Services.] 
          
                         
1  New section 49 inserted through Finance Act, 2019. 
2    Existing sub-section renumbered as sub-section (1) by Finance Act, 2021. 
3   
Words “Federal Government” substituted by Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 2020. 
4 New sub-section  (2) inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
5 New section 50 added by Finance Act, 2022. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
72 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
[See Section 3] 
 
TABLE 1 
(EXCISABLE GOODS) 
 
 
S.No. 
Description of Goods 
Heading/ 
sub-heading 
Number 
Rate of Duty 
 
Col.(1) 
Col.(2) 
Col.(3) 
Col.(4) 
 
1[1*** 
omitted] 
 
 
 
 
 1[2*** 
omitted] 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Concentrates 
for 
aerated 
beverages 
in 
all 
forms 
including syrup form 
 
2106.9010 
Fifty per cent ad val. 
 
4 
Aerated waters 
2201.1020 
 2[Twenty] per cent of 
retail price 
5 
Aerated waters, containing 
added 
sugar 
or 
other 
sweetening matter or flavored 
 
2202.1010 
3[Twenty] per cent of 
retail price 
6 
Aerated 
waters 
if 
manufactured wholly from 
juices or pulp of 
4[  ] 
vegetables, food grains or 
fruits and which do not 
contain any other ingredient, 
indigenous or imported, other 
than sugar, coloring materials, 
preservatives or additives in 
Respective 
headings 
 
 
 
 
5[Twenty]  per cent of 
retail price 
                         
1 Serial numbers 1, 2 and entries relating thereto omitted through Finance Act, 2021. 
2  The figure “thirteen” substituted through Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
3  The figure “thirteen” substituted through Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
4  Word omitted by Finance Act, 2008. 
5  The figure “thirteen” substituted through Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
73 
S.No. 
Description of Goods 
Heading/ 
sub-heading 
Number 
Rate of Duty 
 
Col.(1) 
Col.(2) 
Col.(3) 
Col.(4) 
 
quantities prescribed under 
the West Pakistan Pure Food 
Rules, 1965.  
 
7 
Un-manufactured tobacco 
24.01 
1[Three hundred and 
ninety rupees] per 
kilogram 
 
2[8 
 
 
 
 
 
3[8a 
Cigarettes of tobacco or tobacco 
substitutes excluding locally 
produced cigarettes. 
 
 
 
E-liquids by whatsoever name 
called, for electric cigarette kits. 
 
 
 
24.02 
 
 
 
 
Respective 
heading 
Sixty five percent of 
retail price or the rate 
of duty as prescribed 
against S. No. 9 
whichever is higher. 
 
Rupees ten 4[thousand 
per kg]. 
 
8b 
Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos of 
tobacco and tobacco substitute. 
Respective 
heading 
Sixty five percent of 
retail price or rupees 
ten thousand per kg 
whichever is higher.] 
 
5[8c. 
 
Tobacco mixture in an 
electrically heated tobacco 
product by whatever name 
called, intended for consumption 
by using a tobacco heating 
system without combustion  
 
6[Respective 
headings] 
 
7[Rupees sixteen 
thousand five hundred 
per kg] 
                         
1  The figure “ten” substituted through Tax Laws (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2022. 
2    Serial number 8 substituted by Finance Act, 2020. 
3 New serial numbers 8a and 8b inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
4 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2022. 
5 New serial number 8c inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
6 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2022. 
7 Expression substituted by Finance Act, 2023 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
74 
 
1[9. 
Locally produced cigarettes 
if their on-pack printed retail 
price 
exceeds 
2[nine 
thousand] 
rupees 
per 
thousand cigarettes. 
24.02 
Rupees 
3[sixteen 
thousand 
five 
hundred] 
per 
thousand 
cigarettes
---

Section 45:
10. 
Locally produced cigarettes 
if their on-pack printed retail 
price does not exceed 4[nine 
thousand] 
per 
thousand 
cigarettes.  
24.02 
Rupees 
5[five 
thousand and fifty] 
per 
thousand 
cigarettes] 
6[10a. 
***] omitted.  
 
 
 
7[11***]   
 
 
 
 
.  
12 
Cigarettes manufactured by a 
manufacturer who remains 
engaged on and after the 10th 
June, 1994, either directly or 
through 
any 
other 
arrangement, 
if 
the 
manufacture of any brand of 
cigarette in non-tariff areas 
 
24.02 
Sixty 8[five] 
percent of retail 
price. 
 
13 
Portland cement, aluminous 
cement, slag cement, super 
sulphate cement and similar 
hydraulic cements, whether 
or not colored or in the form 
of clinkers  
 
25.23 
 
 
 
  
 
 9[two rupees] per 
kilogram  
                         
1  Serial numbers 9 and 10 and entries relating thereto substituted through Finance Act, 2019. 
2 Words substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
3 Words substituted by Finance (Supplementary), Act 2023. 
4 Words substituted by Finance (Supplementary), Act 2023. 
5 Words substituted by Finance (Supplementary), Act 2023. 
6 
Serial numbers 10a and entries relating thereto omitted through Finance Act, 2019. 
7  Serial No. 11 omitted by Finance Act, 2013. 
8  Substituted for “four” by Finance Act, 2010. 
9  Words “one and half rupees” substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
75 
1[14, 15 and 
16***  ] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2[17 & 18]   
 
 
 
 
3[19&20] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4[21***] 
 
 
 
5[22 to 
25***] 
 
 
 
6[26to30***] 
 
 
 
 
31 
Liquefied Natural Gas 
2711.1100 
7[ten rupees per 
Million British 
Thermal Unit 
(MMBTu)] 
32 
Liquefied propone 
2711.1200 
Seventeen rupees 
and eighteen paisa 
per hundred cubic 
meters. 
33 
Liquefied butanes 
2711.1300 
Seventeen rupees 
and eighteen paisa 
per hundred cubic 
meters. 
 
34 
Liquefied ethylene, 
propylene, butylenes and 
butadiene 
2711.1400 
 
Seventeen rupees 
and eighteen paisa 
per hundred cubic 
meters. 
                         
1  Serial no. 14, 15 & 16 omitted by Finance Act, 2007. 
2  Serial no. 17 and 18 omitted by Finance Act, 2011. 
3  Serial no. 19 & 20 Omitted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
4 
Sr. No. 21 omitted by Finance Act, 2011. 
5  Sr. Nos. 22 to 25 omitted by Finance Act, 2012. 
6  Sr. Nos. 26 to 30 omitted by Finance Act, 2011. Sr. No. 27 omitted by  Finance Act, 2012. 
7  The expression substituted through Finance Act, 2019. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
76 
35 
Other Liquefied petroleum 
Gases and   gaseous 
hydrocarbons 
2711.1900 
1[Rupees sixty per 
hundred metric 
tonne]. 
36 
Natural Gas in gaseous state 
2711.2100 
2[ten rupees] per 
Million British 
Thermal Unit 
(MMBTu) 
37 
Other petroleum Gases  in 
gaseous state 
2711.2900 
 
4[ten rupees]  per 
Million British 
Thermal Unit 
(MMBTu) 
3[38***] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4[39 & 40] 
 
 
 
     41 
Flavors and concentrates for 
use in aerated beverages 
3302.1010 
Fifty per cent ad 
valorem. 
 4[ 42 to 
45] 
omitted 
 
 
5[46 to 49] 
 
omitted 
 
 
 6[(53)] 
 
 
 
7[54 
***] omitted. 
 
 
                         
1 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2022. 
2  Substituted vide Finance Act, 2010. 
3  Omitted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
4 
Sr. Nos. 39 to 40 omitted by Finance Act, 2011 & Sr. Nos. 42 to 45 omitted by Finance Act, 2012. 
5  Sr. Nos. 46 47, 48 and 49 omitted by Finance Act, 2011 
6  Sr.No. 53 omitted through Finance Act, 2016 
7  Serial number 54 and entries relating thereto omitted through Finance Act, 2019. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
77 
 
   1[55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2[55B 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Imported motor cars, SUVs and 
other motor vehicles, excluding 
auto 
rickshaws, 
principally 
designed for the transport of 
persons (other than those of 
headings 87.02), 1[and till the 
30th day of June, 2026 electric 
vehicles (4 wheelers)] including 
station wagons and racing cars 
 
(a) of cylinder capacity up to 
1000cc 
(b) of cylinder capacity from 
1001cc            to 1799cc 
(c) of cylinder capacity 1800cc 
to 3000cc 
 
(d) 
of 
cylinder 
capacity 
exceeding 3001cc 
 
Locally 
manufactured 
or 
assembled motor cars, SUVs 
and other motor vehicles, 
excluding 
auto 
rickshaws 
principally designed for the 
transport of persons (other 
than those of headings 87.02), 
and till the 30th day of June, 
2026 electric vehicles (4 
wheelers) including station 
wagons and racing cars: 
 (a) of cylinder capacity up to 
1300cc 
(b) of cylinder capacity from 
1301cc to 2000cc 
(c) 
of 
cylinder 
capacity 
2001cc and above 
 
 
 
 
87.03 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      87.03 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5% ad val 
3[10]% ad val. 
4[30]% ad val. 
 
 
5[40]% ad val.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.5 % ad val. 
 
 5% ad val.  
 
 10% ad val. 
 
 
 
 
 
                         
1  Serial number 55 and 55A and entries relating thereto substituted by Finance Act, 2019. 
2 
Serial number 55B and entries relating thereto substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2022. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
78 
1[55C 
 
 
2[55D 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3[56 
 
Imported double cabin (4x4) 
pick-up vehicles 
 
Locally manufactured double 
cabin (4x4) pick-up vehicles 
except the vehicles booked on 
or before the 30th June, 2020 
subject to the restriction or 
conditions specified by the 
Board. 
 
Filter rod for cigarettes 
8704.2190 
      8704.3190 
 
 
8704.2190 
      8704.3190 
 
 
 
 
 
5[Respective 
headings] 
 
 
9[30]% ad val] 
 
 
 
 
 
10[10]% ad val.] 
 
 
 
 
11[Rupees fifteen 
hundred per kg] 
12[57. 
Omitted] 
 
 
 
 
11[58. 
Omitted] 
 
 
 
 
13[59. 
Sugary Fruit juices, syrups 
and squashes, waters whether 
or not containing added sugar 
or 
artificial 
sweeteners 
excluding 
mineral 
and 
aerated waters 
Respective 
headings 
14[Twenty] percent of 
retail price] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
4 Expression inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
6 Expression substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2022. 
7 Expression substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2022. 
8 Expression substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2022. 
1     New serial number 55C inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
2 New serial number 55D inserted by Finance Act, 2020. 
3  Serial number 56 and entries relating thereto in column (2), (3) and (4) added by Finance Act, 2015. 
5 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2022. 
9 Expression substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2022. 
10 Expression substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2022. 
11 Expression substituted by Finance Act, 2022. 
12 Serial numbers 57, 58 and entries relating thereto omitted through Finance Act, 2021. 
13 New serial number 59 added by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
14 For the word “ten” the word “twenty” substituted by Finance Act, 2023 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
79 
1[60 
Energy inefficient fans both 
locally 
manufactured 
and 
imported 
which 
do 
not 
comply 
with 
the 
MEPS, 
notified by PSQCA 
Respective 
heading 
Rupees two thousand 
per fan with effect 
from the 1st day of 
January, 2024 
 
 
 
 
61 
Incandescent 
bulbs 
both 
locally 
manufactured 
and 
imported 
8539.2200 and 
8539.2990 
Twenty percent ad 
valorem with effect 
from the 1st day of 
January, 2024 
 
 
 
 
62 
Fertilizers 
Respective 
heading 
Five percent ad 
valorem.] 
 
 
 
 
 
Interpretation.–– (1) Unless the intent appears otherwise, for the 
purpose of levy of duty of excise, the description of goods shall prevail 
upon the tariff classification. However in order for interpretation of 
description of any goods or verification of any characteristics of any 
product, the reliance shall be made on the relevant version of the 
Explanatory Notes to the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding 
System. 
 
(2) The rate of duty mentioned in column (4) of the above table 
shall also apply on the goods mentioned in column (2) thereof, if imported, 
or brought from non-tariff to tariff areas in case of notified goods. 
 
2[Restriction-1– Reduction.– For the purpose of levy, collection 
and payment of duty at the rates specified in column (4) against serial 
number 9 3[and 10], no cigarette manufacturer shall reduce retail price 
from the level adopted on the day of the announcement of the latest 
budget]. 
 
 
(2) Variants at different price points.– No manufacturer or 
importer of cigarette can introduce or sell a new cigarette brand variant at 
the same existing brand family at a price lower than the lowest actual price 
                         
1 New serial numbers 60 to 62 added by Finance Act, 2023 
2  Restriction-1 & Restriction-3 substituted by Finance Act, 2017 
3  The words added through Finance Act, 2019. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
80 
of the existing variant of the same brand family. For the purposes of this 
restriction, current minimum price variant of existing brand means the 
lowest price of a brand variant on the day of announcement of Budget 1[of 
the current Financial year].  
 
 
1[(3) Restriction-3 – Minimum price. –  No brand shall be priced 
and sold at a retail price (excluding sales tax) lower than 2[sixty] percent of the 
retail price under column (2) against serial number 9 of Table-I of the First 
Schedule to this Act.] 
 
 
3[(4) Rate of Duty - Notwithstanding the limitation on the retail price 
under column (2) against serial number 9, manufacturers whose brands were 
liable to duty at the rates specified in column (4) against serial number 9, one 
day before the date of amendment (through a notification, an ordinance or an 
act of parliament), shall continue to collect and pay the duty against serial 
number 9 at the amended rates specified in column (4) (through a notification, 
an ordinance or an act of parliament)]. 
                         
1  Words substituted by Finance Act, 2014. 
2 Words inserted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
3 Expression added by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
81 
TABLE II 
(EXCISABLE SERVICES) 
 
S.No. 
Description of 1[Services] 
Heading/sub-
heading 
Number 
Rate of Duty 
 
Col.(1) 
Col.(2) 
Col.(3) 
Col.(4) 
1 
Advertisement 
on 
closed 
circuit T.V. 
9802.3000 
 
Sixteen per cent of 
the charges. 
2 
Advertisements on cable T.V. 
network. 
9802.5000 
 
Sixteen per cent of 
the charges. 
2a 
2[Advertisements in news 
papers 
 
and 
periodicals 
(excluding and           
Classified advertisements) of 
hoarding boards, poles Signs 
and sign boards.                     
9802.4000 
and 
9802.9000 
Sixteen per cent of 
the charges.] 
3 
3[Facilities for travel 
 
(a)  Services provided or 
rendered in respect  of 
travel 
by 
air 
of 
passengers within the 
territorial jurisdiction of 
Pakistan 
 
4[(i)   Long routes 
 
(ii)  Short routes 
 
 
5[(iii) * * *] 
 
Explanation: 
For 
the 
purpose of this entry, 
“Long routes” means 
journeys exceeding 500 
kilometers, short routes 
98.03 
 
9803.1000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1[Fifteen Hundred] 
 rupees 
 
2[Nine Hundred] 
rupees 
 
 
 
                         
1 Words substituted by Finance Act, 2021. 
2 
Inserted vide Finance Act, 2009. 
3  Inserted by Finance Act, 2014. 
4  Inserted by Finance Act, 2014 
5  Sub-clause (iii) and entry relating thereto in column (4) omitted by Finance Act, 2015. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
82 
S.No. 
Description of 1[Services] 
Heading/sub-
heading 
Number 
Rate of Duty 
 
Col.(1) 
Col.(2) 
Col.(3) 
Col.(4) 
means 
the 
remaining 
journeys, 
other 
than 
socio-economic 
route 
1[as defined in S. No. 9 
of Table II of the Third 
Schedule]. 
Routes 
exempt from duty as on 
1st 
July, 
2014 
shall, 
however, remain exempt. 
 
4[(b)  Services provided or 
rendered in respect of 
travel 
by 
air 
of 
passengers embarking on 
international 
journey 
from Pakistan,–] 
5[(i) 
Economy 
and 
economy plus 
6[(ii) Club, business and first 
class air tickets issued on or 
after 
the 
date 
of 
commencement 
of 
the 
Finance 
(Supplementary) 
Act, 2023: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five thousand 
rupees 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) IATA Traffic Conference 
Area 1  (North, Central, 
South America and 
Environs) 
 
       (b) 
IATA 
Traffic 
Conference Area 2  
 
 
Two hundred and fifty 
thousand rupees 
 
 
 
(I) 
Seventy-five 
thousand rupees 
                                                             
2  The figures substituted through Finance Act, 2019. 
3 
The figures substituted through Finance Act, 2019. 
1  Substituted for the expression “, and “socio-economic routes” means journeys along the Baluchistan coastal 
belt” by     Finance Act, 2015. 
4  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
5  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2014. 
6 Sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of serial number 3 substituted by Finance (Supplementary) Act, 2023. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
83 
S.No. 
Description of 1[Services] 
Heading/sub-
heading 
Number 
Rate of Duty 
 
Col.(1) 
Col.(2) 
Col.(3) 
Col.(4) 
(I) 
Middle East  
 
and Africa 
  
(II) 
Europe 
 
 
 
  (c) IATA Traffic  
 
 
Conference Area 3 
 
(Far East, Australia, New 
 
Zealand and Pacific 
 
Islands) 
 
 
 
 
 
(II) 
One hundred 
and fifty thousand 
rupees 
 
One hundred and fifty 
thousand rupees] 
 
 
4 
Inland carriage of goods by air 
9804.1000 
3[Sixteen] per cent 
of the charges. 
 
5 
 
Shipping agents 
 
9805.1000 
 
(i) Two hundred 
rupees per house-
bill 
of 
lading 
issued in case of 
Non-Vessel 
Operating  
Common Carriers 
(NVOCC), 
International Freight 
 
 
 
ii) 
1[sixteen] per 
cent of the charges 
in case of other 
categories 
of 
shipping agents. 
 
2[6 
 
Telecommunication services 
3[, excluding such services in 
the area of a Province where 
such Province has imposed 
 
98.12 
(All sub 
headings ) 
 
 4[nineteen and half] 
per cent of charges 
                         
1 
Substituted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
2  Serial no. 6 substituted by Finance Act, 2008. 
3  Comma and words added by Finance Act, 2014. 
4 For the word “sixteen” the word “nineteen and half” substituted by Finance Act, 2022. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
84 
S.No. 
Description of 1[Services] 
Heading/sub-
heading 
Number 
Rate of Duty 
 
Col.(1) 
Col.(2) 
Col.(3) 
Col.(4) 
Provincial sales tax and has 
started collecting the same 
through its own Board or 
Authority, as the case may 
be.] 
 
 
 
 
1[6A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2[ 7*** 
] 
Following 
telecommunication 
services: 
Mobile phone call, if call 
duration exceeds five 
minutes; 
Respective 
sub-heading 
of 98.12 
Seventy five paisa 
per call in addition 
to the rates of duty 
specified under 
Serial No.6] 
38 
Services 
provided 
or 
rendered 
by 
banking 
companies 
4[excluding 
Merchant Discount Rate 
(MDR) 
for 
accepting 
digital payment], insurance 
companies, 
cooperative 
financing 
 
societies, 
modarabas , musharikas, 
leasing companies, foreign 
exchange 
dealers, 
non-
banking 
financial 
institutions, 
Assets 
Management 
Companies 
98.13 
Sixteen percent of 
the charges.] 
                         
1 New serial number 6A and entries relating thereto inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
2  Serial No. 7 and entries relating thereto omitted by Finance Act, 2013. 
3  Serial no. 8 substituted by Finance Act, 2013. 
4 Words inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
85 
S.No. 
Description of 1[Services] 
Heading/sub-
heading 
Number 
Rate of Duty 
 
Col.(1) 
Col.(2) 
Col.(3) 
Col.(4) 
and other persons dealing 
in any such services. 
1[9 & 
10*** ] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2[11 
Franchise services, royalty and 
fee for technical services 
Respective 
heading 
Ten per cent of the 
charges.] 
3[ 12** 
] 
 
 
 
4[13 
Services provided or rendered 
by stock brokers 
9819.1000 
Sixteen percent of 
the charges.] 
 
5[14 
 
Services 
provided 
or 
rendered by port and terminal 
operators 
in 
relation 
to 
imports 
excluding 
stevedoring services. 
 
9819.9090 
 
Sixteen percent of 
the charges.] 
 
6[15 
 
Chartered flights 
 
98.03 
 
Sixteen percent of 
the charges] 
 
 
7[Note.– The duty on the services as specified against serial 
numbers 1, 2, 2A, 5, 8, 11 and 13 shall not be levied on services provided 
in a Province where the provincial sales tax has been levied thereon]. 
 
 
 
 
 
                         
1  Serial Nos. 9 & 10 Omitted vide Finance Act, 2007 
2  Serial no. 11 substituted by Finance Act, 2023 
3  Serial No. 12 omitted by Finance Act, 2011. 
4  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2009. 
5  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2009. 
6  Serial no. 15 inserted by Finance Act, 2014. 
7  Note inserted through Finance Act, 2016. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
86 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
 
(Goods on which duty is collectible under sales tax mode with entitlement 
for adjustment with sales tax and vice versa) 
[See section 7] 
S.No. 
Description of Goods 
Heading/ 
sub-heading 
Number 
1 
2 
3 
 
1(1) 
 
[omitted] 
 
 
3(2) 
 
[omitted] 
 
 
2[(3)***] 
 
 
 
 
 3[(4) 
[omitted] 
 
 
                         
1 Serial numbers 1,2 and 4 omitted by Finance Act, 2021. 
2  Serial number 3 omitted through Finance Act, 2016 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
87 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
(Conditional exemptions)  
[See Sub-section (1) of section 16] 
 
TABLE-I 
(Goods) 
 
S.No. 
Description of Goods 
Heading/ 
sub-heading 
Number 
 
(1) 
 
Crude vegetable oil, if obtained from the locally 
grown seeds excluding cooking oil, without 
having undergone any process other than the 
process of washing. 
 
5.07, 15.08, 
15.09, 15010, 
15.11, 15.12, 
15.13, 15.14 
15.15, 15.16, 
15.17 & 15.18 
 
1[2  
***] 
 
 
 
(3) 
 
Un-manufactured tobacco or tobacco refuses if 
used for the purposes other than the manufacturer 
of cigarettes, smoking mixtures for pipes and 
cigarettes and cigars and cheroots. 
 
24.01 
 
2[3A ** 
3B** ] 
 
 
 
 
 
(4) 
Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes, of 
tobacco or of tobacco substitutes,- 
 
24.02 
 
(i) 
If supplied to Pakistan Navy for consumption 
by its personnel on board its vessels. 
 
(ii) If made by hand in tapered shape of biris 
without the use of any manual or power-
operated machine in any process of their 
manufacture. 
 
 
 
                         
1 
Omitted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
2  Omitted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
88 
S.No. 
Description of Goods 
Heading/ 
sub-heading 
Number 
(iii)  If supplied for consumption by the President 
of Pakistan, the President of Azad Jammu & 
Kashmir and the Governors of the Provinces, 
members of their families and guests 
provided that the cigarettes are manufactured 
and supplied on the specific written orders of 
the competent official authority and the 
cigarettes and their packets are special-crested 
for the respective privileged House. 
 
(iv) If supplied against payment in foreign 
exchange, to M/s Duty Free Shops Ltd for 
sale in its Duty Free Shops and on board 
international 
flight 
by 
the 
Pakistan 
International Airlines subject to the same 
conditions and procedures as are applicable 
for the purposes of exemption of customs 
duty. 
 
1[5 ***] 
 
 
 
6 
Motor spirit,– 
2710.1110 
(i)  If supplied to Pakistan Navy for consumption 
in its vessels 
(ii) 
If 
supplied 
for 
consumption 
by 
the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development in its official cars 
2710.1110 
 
2[7** 
8** ] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
Sludge and sediment recovered from storage tanks 
of the   incoming vessels or ships meant for 
breaking 
 
 
2710.9900 
                         
1  Omitted vide Finance Act, 2013. 
2 
Omitted vide Finance Act, 2013. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
89 
S.No. 
Description of Goods 
Heading/ 
sub-heading 
Number 
10 
Natural gas if produced and used in the same field 
for drilling,   production, pressure maintenance or 
in any other joint operations including flaring in 
the same field. 
2711.2100 
 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this entry, "Joint Operations" means all 
marine and land activities, including gas exploration, prospection, development 
and production activities conducted by Working Interest Owners under a 
petroleum concession agreement with the Government. 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
Carbon black oil (carbon black feed stock) if 
imported by 1[a duly registered manufacturer of 
carbon black]. 
 
2707.9910 
2713.9010 
 
Goods,- 
 
 
12 
(i) If donated to the President's Funds for Afghan 
Refugees, Assistance to Palestine and Famine 
Relief for Africa, provided that before making such 
donation the manufacturer or importer shall 
inform in writing to the Collector of Federal 
Excise or as the case may be, Collector of 
Customs about quantity, value and the duty 
involved on such goods and shall in case of 
imports, fulfill the conditions and comply with the 
procedures specified for the purposes of 
exemption from customs duty. 
(ii) If purchased by the Cabinet Division, 
Government of Pakistan, for donation to a 
foreign country in the event of natural disasters 
as certified by the Emergency Relief Cell of 
that Division. 
 
(iii) If supplied   against   international   tender   
issued   by UNICEF,  UNDP,  WHO,  WFP,  
 
Respective  
headings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                         
1  Substituted for “National Petrocarbon (Pvt.) Limited, Pipri, Karachi as raw material for the manufacture of 
the carbon black” by Finance Act, 2008. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
90 
 
 
 
UNHCR,  International  Red Cross or any other 
relief agency, for Afghan Refugees subject to 
the conditions given below, namely,- 
(
(a) payment for the supply shall be received in 
foreign currency, which shall be surrendered to 
the State Bank of Pakistan and the supplier shall 
receive payment in Pak rupees as per State Bank 
procedure and foreign exchange regulations; 
(b) 
the goods shall be duly received by the 
organization which signed the contract, and a 
certificate to this effect shall be issued by the 
organization which shall be duly attested by the 
Chief Commissioner/ Commissioner of Afghan 
Refugees and will be submitted by the 
manufacturer to the 1[Commissioner] of Federal 
excise; and 
(c) 
the registered person shall retain the 
relevant documents and certificates in record. 
(iv) If supplied as ship stores to ships and 
aircrafts leaving for abroad subject to the 
satisfaction of the Collector of Customs in terms 
of section 24 of the Customs Act, 1969. 
 
13 
Goods imported or supplied under grants-in-aid 
for which a specific consent has been obtained 
from the 2[Board]. 
 
Respective 
Heading 
                         
1 
Substituted for “Collector” by Finance Act, 2010 w.e.f. June 5, 2010. The same amendment was made by 
Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2010, promulgated as Ordinance No. III of 2010, dated February 6, 2010, 
published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 23 to 53. This Ordinance was presented in 
the Parliament but lapsed on 5 June 2010 as Parliament did not approve it. Originally this amendment was 
made through Finance (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, promulgated as Ordinance No. XXII of 2009, dated 
October 28, 2009, published in the Gazette of Pakistan Extraordinary Part I at pages 229 to 259. 
2  Substituted vide Finance Act, 2007. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
91 
 
 
 
14 
 
 
15 
Goods if imported as bonafide baggage 
 
Goods if imported by Duty Free Shops as baggage 
free of   custom  duty,  regulatory  duty  and  sales  
tax  under  the   baggage rules made under the 
Customs Act, 1969 (IV of 1969). 
Respective 
Heading 
 
Respective  
Heading 
 
 
 
 
16 
Any 
goods 
1[,excluding 
un-manufactured 
tobacco,] which are manufactured produced in-
house by a   registered   person   and   used   for   
the   manufacture   and   production of goods on 
which duty of excise is paid by such     person. 
2[omitted] 
 
 
Respective 
Headings. 
 
217 
 
 
3[18***
] 
Goods for further manufacture of goods in the 
Export Processing Zones 
 
 
Respective 
Headings. 
 
4[19 
Materials and equipment 
5[(plant, machinery, 
equipment, appliances and accessories)] for 
construction and operation of 6[Gwadar] Port and 
development of Free Zone for 3[Gwadar] Port as 
imported by or supplied to China Overseas Ports 
Holding Company Limited (COPHCL) and its 
operating companies namely (i) China Overseas 
Ports Holding Company Pakistan (Private) 
Limited, (ii) Gwadar International Terminals 
Limited, (iii) Gwadar Marine Services Limited 
and (iv) Gwadar Free Zone Company Limited, 
their contractors and sub-contractors; and Ship 
Bunker Oils bought and sold to the ships calling 
on/visiting 3[Gwadar] Port, having Concession 
Agreement with the Gwadar Port Authority, for a 
period of forty years, subject to the conditions and 
procedure as specified under S. No. 100A of 
Respective 
Headings 
                         
1  Expression inserted and Explanation omitted by Finance Supplementary (Amendment)Act,2018. 
2  Inserted vide Finance Act, 2008. 
3  Serial number 18 omitted through Finance Act, 2016. 
4  New serial number 19 added through Finance Act, 2016. 
5  The expression inserted by Finance Act, 2017. 
6  The word “Gwadar” substituted for the word “Gawadar” by Finance Act, 2017. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
92 
 
 
 
Table-1 of Sixth Schedule to the Sales Tax Act,
---

Section 46:
22. 
Signed by importers on this ____________________ day of 
_______________________201_. 
Managing Director or person next 
                         
1  Annex “A” & “B” added by Finance Act, 2018. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
97 
in hierarchy duly authorized by MD 
(Name and permanent address) 
Collector of Customs 
(On behalf of President)  
Witness (1) 
________________________________________________ 
(signature, name, designation and full address)  
Witness (2)  
________________________________________________ 
(signature, name, designation and full address) 
 
1[Annex-B 
[See conditions (c) and (e)] 
NTN or FTN of Importer 
Approval No. 
Details of equipment (to be filled by the authorized officer of the Regulatory 
Authority) to be imported 
Description 
and 
specifications. 
Quantity/UOM 
L/C No. or 
bank contract 
No. and B/L. 
IGM 
No. 
Date 
& 
Index No. 
Remarks, 
if any. 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
CERTIFICATE 
BY 
THE 
AUTHORIZED 
OFFICER 
OF 
REGULATORY AUTHORITY:  It is hereby certified that the 
description, quantity and other details mentioned above are true 
and correct. Goods imported are in commensuration with the 
project requirements and are bona fide requirement of the Project 
under the Contract. It is further certified that the above items shall 
not be used for any other purpose except for the Project.  
Signature: 
 
 
__________________________ 
Name and Designation: 
__________________________ 
Official Stamp: 
 
__________________________ 
Date: 
 
 
__________________________ 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
98 
 
1[23 
Imported construction materials and goods 
imported by M/s China State Construction 
Engineering 
Corporation 
Limited 
(M/s 
CSCECL), 
whether 
or 
not 
locally 
manufactured, for construction of Karachi-
Peshawar Motorway (Sukkur-Multan Section) 
subject to fulfilment of same conditions, 
limitations and restrictions as are specified 
under S. No. 145 of Table-1 of Sixth Schedule 
to the Sales Tax Act, 1990, provided that total 
incidence of exemptions of all duties and 
taxes in respect of construction materials and 
goods imported for the project shall not 
exceed ten thousand eight hundred ninety-
eight million rupees including the benefit of 
exemption from duties and taxes availed 
before 30th June, 2018 under the provisions of 
Sales Tax Act, 1990, the Customs Act, 1969, 
The Federal Excise Act 2005 and the Income 
Tax Ordinance, 2001 and the notifications 
issued thereunder. 
 
 
Respective 
headings 
2[24 
The following goods, when supplied within 
the limits of the Border Sustenance Markets, 
established in cooperation with Iran and 
Afghanistan: 
 
 
(i)  Animal Fats and Oil and their fractions 
1516.1000 
 
(ii)  Vegetable Fats and their fractions 
1516.2010 
 
(iii) Vegetable Oils and their fractions 
1516.2020 
 
Provided that, such items in case of import, 
shall be allowed clearance by the Customs 
Authorities subject to furnishing of bank 
guarantee equal to the amount of duty 
involved and the same shall be released after 
 
                         
1  New serial number 23 added by Finance Act, 2018. 
2 New serial numbers 24 and 25 inserted by Finance Act, 2021. 
The Federal Excise Act, 2005 
 
99 
presentation of consumption certificate issued 
by the Commissioner Inland Revenue having 
jurisdiction: 
Provided further that, the said exemption shall 
only be available to a person upon furnishing 
proof of having a functional business 
premises located within limits of the Border 
Sustenance Markets.
---

