 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS 
FOR CORPORATE /COMMERCIAL BANKING  
(Risk Management, Corporate Governance and Operations) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Revised till January 2015) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BANKING POLICY & REGULATIONS DEPARTMENT  
STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimer:  
State Bank of Pakistan compiles a booklet of Prudential Regulations from time to time for 
convenience of users. Updated version of such a booklet containing amendments in the 
regulations made through circulars/circular letters to date is being issued. Due care has been taken 
while incorporating amendments, however, errors and omission may be expected. In case of any 
ambiguity, users are advised to refer to the original circulars/ circular letters on the relevant 
subject(s), which are available on SBP’s website (www.sbp.org.pk).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
C O N T E N T S 
 
PART-A 
Definitions. 
04 
PART-B 
Regulations. 
09 
 
RISK MANAGEMENT (R) 
Regulation R-1 
Exposure limits. 
09 
Regulation R-2 
Limit on exposure against contingent liabilities. 
09 
Regulation R-3 
Financial analysis & other conditions. 
10 
Regulation R-4 
Security and margin requirements 
11 
Regulation R-5 
Monitoring 
12 
Regulation R-6 
Exposure in shares and TFCs/Sukuk. 
13 
Regulation R-7 
Guarantees. 
14 
Regulation R-8 
Classification and provisioning for assets. 
15 
Regulation R-9 
Assuming obligations on behalf of NBFCs. 
17 
Regulation R-10 
Payment of dividend. 
17 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (G) 
Regulation G-1 
Corporate Governance/ Board of Directors and Management.               17 
Regulation G-2 
Dealing with Directors, major shareholders and employees                    23 
                                                     of the banks/DFIs.  
Regulation G-3 
Contributions and donations for charitable, social, educational              23 
                                                     and public welfare purposes.  
Regulation G-4 
Credit Rating.                                                                                             24 
 
OPERATIONS (O) 
Regulation O-1 
Undertaking of  cash  payments  outside  the 
bank’s 
24 
                                                     authorized place of business. 
Regulation O-2 
Window dressing. 
24 
Regulation O-3 
Reconciliation of inter-branch accounts and settlement of 
25 
                                                     suspense account entries. 
Regulation O-4 
Maintenance of assets in Pakistan. 
25 
Regulation O-5 
Foreign currency deposits under FE 25-1998 
25 
 
 
 
Annexures                                                                                                                                                 27-51 
                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P R E F A C E 
 
In order to align the regulatory framework to changing business environment and the best 
international practices, the State Bank of Pakistan, in consultation with stakeholders, has revised the 
Prudential Regulations on Risk Management, Corporate Governance and Operations for Corporate & 
Commercial Banking. The revised regulations aim to assist banks/DFIs in better addressing their 
unique risk factors and dynamic environment by giving more discretion in business decisions. These 
regulations also describe minimum prudential benchmarks in critical risk areas to balance the 
considerations of financial stability of banks/DFIs vis-à-vis diversity and innovation. 
 
2) These Prudential Regulations do not supersede directives and instructions issued by the State Bank 
in respect of areas not covered under these regulations. Banks/DFIs that are compliant to the revised 
or new limits as introduced in these regulations shall follow the same instantly. However, such 
institutions which are in breach of these limits will have to achieve the compliance by 30-06-2015, 
unless otherwise specifically mentioned in the regulations. 
 
3) Banks/DFIs are advised to ensure meticulous compliance of these Regulations in letter and spirit. 
Any non-compliance or circumvention of the requirements will attract punitive action under the 
provisions of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962.  
 
 
 
 
SHAUKAT ZAMAN  
Director 
Banking Policy & Regulations Department 
 
4 
 
PART - A 
D E F I N I T I O N S 
For the purpose of these regulations: - 
 
1. 
Account Holder means a person who has opened any account with a bank directly or through 
branchless banking agent or is a holder   of   deposit/deposit   certificate  or   any   instrument   
representing deposit/placing of money with a bank/DFI or has borrowed money from the 
bank/DFI. 
 
2. 
Branchless Banking Agent means an agent providing banking services to the customers    of a 
 
bank/DFI on behalf of the bank/DFI/MFBs under a valid agency agreement. 
 
3. 
Alternate Director means a person who has been designated by a director during his absence, as per 
provisions of the sub-section (2) of section 192 of Companies  Ordinance, 1984. 
 
4. 
Bank means a banking company as defined in the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962. 
 
5. 
Borrower or Obligor means a person on whom a bank/DFI has taken any exposure during the 
course of business. 
 
6. 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), in relation to bank/DFI means an individual who, subject to the 
control and directions of the Board of Directors , is entrusted with the  whole, or substantially the 
whole, of the powers of management of the affairs of  the bank/DFI occupying the position of   Chief 
Executive Officer and include President, acting President, Managing Director, Country Head of 
Foreign bank, Executive assuming charge of the bank for interim period or by whatever name called, 
and whether under a contract of service or otherwise. 
 
7. 
Contingent Liability means:  
a)  a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by 
the    occurrence or non- occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the 
control of the enterprise; or  
b) a present  obligation  that  arises  from  past  events  but  is  not  recognized because:  
i)   it  is  not  probable  that  an  outflow  of  resources  embodying  economic  benefits will be required 
to settle the obligation; or  
ii) the  amount  of  the  obligation  cannot  be  measured  with  sufficient reliability; and includes 
letters of credit, letters of guarantee, bid bonds/performance bonds, advance payment guarantees and 
underwriting commitments. 
 
8. 
Control refers to an ownership directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, of more   than one half of 
voting power of an enterprise. 
 
9. 
Corporate Card means credit card issued to the employees of an entity where the repayment is to 
be made by the said entity. 
 
10. Derivative means a type of financial contract the value of which is determined by reference to 
one or more underlying assets or indices. The major categories of such contracts include forwards, 
futures, swaps and options. Derivative also includes structured financial products that have one or more 
characteristics of forwards, futures, swaps and options.  
 
11. DFI  means  Development  Financial  Institution  and  includes  the   Saudi Pak Industrial and 
Agricultural Investment Company Limited,  Pak Kuwait Investment Company Limited, Pak 
Libya Holding Company Limited, Pak Oman Investment Company (Pvt.) Limited, , House Building 
Finance Company Limited,  Pak Brunei Investment Company Limited, PAIR Investment Company 
 
Limited,  Pak-China  Investment  Company Limited, and any other financial institution notified 
under Section 3-A of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962.  
 
12. Documents include vouchers, cheques, bills, pay-orders, promissory notes, securities for 
leases/advances and claims by or against the bank/DFI or other papers supporting entries in the 
books of a bank/DFI or any other document which   establishes relationship between the bank/DFI and 
5 
 
its customers. 
 
13. Director includes any person occupying the position of a director on the Board of  
a bank/DFI and 
includes sponsor, nominee and alternate director or by whatever name called. 
  
14.   Executive Director1 means a paid employee or executive in the concerned bank/DFI who 
is also a member of the Board of Directors2.  
 
15. Equity of the Bank/DFI includes paid-up capital in respect of ordinary shares, general reserves, 
balance in share premium account, reserve for issue  of bonus shares, statutory reserves, and retained 
earnings/accumulated losses as disclosed in latest  annual audited financial statements.  In case of 
branches of foreign  banks  operating in Pakistan, equity will mean capital maintained, free of 
losses and  provisions, under Section 13 of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962.  
For the purpose of Regulation R-1, reserve shall also include revaluation reserves on account of 
fixed assets to the extent of 50% of their value. However, for this purpose assets must be prudently 
valued by valuators on the panel of Pakistan Banks Association (PBA), fully taking into account 
the possibility of price fluctuations and forced sale value. Revaluation reserves reflecting the 
difference between the book value and the market value will be eligible up to 50%.  
 
16. Exposure shall include:  
A)  Financing Facilities whether fund based or non-fund based extended by a bank /DFI 
       and include: 
i) Any form of financing facility extended or Bills purchased/discounted, Bills purchased / 
discounted on the guarantee of the person. 
ii) Credit facilities extended through Corporate Cards.  
iii) Any financing obligation undertaken on behalf of the person under a letter  of credit including a 
stand-by letter of credit, or similar instrument. 
iv) Loan repayment financial guarantees issued on behalf of the person. 
v) Any  obligations  undertaken  on behalf  of  the  person  under  any  other  
guarantees including 
underwriting commitments. 
vi) Acceptance/endorsements made on account.  
vii) Any other liability assumed  on behalf  of  the person  to  advance     funds pursuant to a 
contractual commitment.  
 
B) Subscription to or investment in shares,  Participation Term Certificates, Term Finance 
Certificates,    Sukuk or any other Commercial Paper by whatever name called   issued or 
guaranteed by the persons.  
 
C) Exposure (Net open position) on account of derivative transactions   allowed under Financial 
Derivatives Business Regulations  (FDBR) issued vide   BSD  Circular  No. 17  dated November 26, 
2004. For the purpose of calculating exposure, the sanctioned limits, or outstanding, whichever are 
higher, will be considered. However, in case of fully drawn term loans where there is no scope for re-
drawal of any portion of the sanctioned limit, bank/DFI may consider the outstanding as 
exposure.  
 
17. Family Member as defined in sub-section (ff) of section 5 of Banking Companies Ordinance 1962. 
 
18. Financial Institutions for the purpose of these regulations mean Banks, Development 
Financial Institutions (DFIs) and NBFCs. 
 
19.   Forced Sale Value (FSV) means the value which fully reflects the possibility of price   
fluctuations   and   can   currently   be   obtained   by   selling   the mortgaged/pledged assets in 
a forced/distressed sale conditions.  
 
20. Government Securities shall include such types of Pak. Rupee obligations of the Federal 
                                                            
1 Amended vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 06 of 2012 dated March 21, 2012 
 
 
6 
 
Government or a Provincial Government or of a Corporation wholly owned or controlled, 
directly or indirectly, by the Federal Government or a Provincial Government and guaranteed 
by the Federal Government as the Federal Government may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, declare, to the extent determined from time to time, to be Government Securities.   
 
21. Group means persons, whether natural or juridical, if one of them or his dependent family 
members or its subsidiary, have control or hold substantial ownership interest (as defined in these 
regulations) over the other. 
 
 
For the purpose of this definition:  
a) Subsidiary will have the same meaning as defined in section 3 of the Companies Ordinance, 1984 
i.e. a company or a body corporate shall deemed to be a subsidiary of another company if that 
other company or body corporate directly or indirectly controls, beneficially owns or holds more 
than 50% of its voting securities or otherwise has power to elect and appoint more than 50% of its 
directors.  
b)  Control refers to an ownership directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, of  more than one half of 
voting power of an enterprise.  
c) Substantial ownership/affiliation means beneficial shareholding of more than 25% by a 
person and/or by his dependent family members, which will 
 include his/her spouse, dependent lineal 
ascendants and descendants and dependent brothers and sisters.  However, shareholding in or by 
the Government owned entities and financial institutions will not constitute substantial 
ownership/affiliation, for the purpose of these regulations.  
 
22. Independent Director means such a person who is not linked directly or indirectly with 
bank/DFI or its sponsor or strategic shareholders.  For  the purpose of such determination, an 
"independent director" is a director who:  
• Has not been employed by Bank /DFI within the last five years; 
• Has not been an employee or affiliate of any present or former external auditor/consultant/legal 
advisor of Bank/DFI within the last three years;  
• Has not been an executive officer or employee of a subsidiary or associate company 
of 
the 
bank/DFI or where Directors of the bank/DFI has substantial  beneficial 
interest 
(20% 
or 
more 
shareholding of director’s own or combined  with family members);  
• Has not been employed by a company of which an executive officer of  
Bank/DFI 
has 
been 
a 
director within the last three years;  
• Is not affiliated with a not-for-profit entity that received contributions from Bank/DFI exceeding of 
10 million or 2 percent of such charitable  organization's consolidated gross revenues during the 
current fiscal year or any of the last three completed fiscal years. 
(Note:  An independent director shall submit a declaration for his/her independence to SBP at the 
time of his/her appointment.)  
 
23. Key Executive1 means key executives of banks/DFIs and includes the  following functional 
responsibilities for the present: 
a) Any executive, acting as second to CEO including Chief Operating Officer,  Deputy 
Managing 
Director or by whatever name called  
b)  Chief Financial Officer/Head of Finance/Head of Accounts  
c)  Head of Internal Audit  
d) Country Treasurer  
e)  Head of Credit/Risk Management  
f)   Head of Operations  
g)  Head of Compliance  
h) Head of Human Resource  
i)   Head of Information Technology  
j)  Head of Islamic Banking    
k)  Head of overseas operations of a bank at head office level 2 
l) Country Head/Regional Head (where a region is consisting of more than one  foreign countries)  
                                                            
1 Inserted vide BPRD Circular No. 04 of 2007 dated April 23, 2007. 
2 k) to n) inserted vide BPRD Circular No. 05 of 2009 dated March 05, 2009. 
7 
 
m) CEO/Head of subsidiary banking company outside Pakistan  
n) CEO of Joint Venture (where majority stake is with the bank incorporated in Pakistan & authority 
to appoint CEO)  
 
The above list will be reviewed from time to time by SBP.  
 
24. Large Exposure means an exposure of 10% or more of a bank’s/DFI’s equity to a single obligor 
or a group. 
 
25. Liquid Assets are the assets which are readily convertible into cash without recourse to a 
court of law and mean encashment/realizable value of government securities, bank deposits, 
certificates of deposit, shares of listed companies which are actively traded on the stock exchange, NIT 
Units, certificates of mutual funds, Certificates of Investment (COIs) issued by DFIs/NBFCs rated at 
least ‘A’ by a credit rating agency on the approved panel of State Bank of Pakistan, listed TFCs rated 
at least ‘A’ by a credit rating agency on the approved panel of State Bank of Pakistan and certificates 
of asset management companies for which there is a book maker quoting daily offer and bid 
rates and there is active secondary market trading. These assets with appropriate margins should be 
in possession of the banks/DFIs with perfected lien.  
Guarantees issued by domestic banks/DFIs when received as collateral by banks/DFIs will be 
treated at par with liquid assets whereas, for guarantees  issued by foreign banks, the issuing 
banks’ rating, assigned either by Standard & Poors, Moody’s or Fitch-IBCA, Japan Credit Rating 
Agency (JCRA) should be ‘A’ and above or equivalent.  
The inter-branch indemnity/guarantee issued by the bank’s overseas branch in favor of its sister 
branch in Pakistan, would also be treated at par with liquid assets, provided the bank is rated ‘A’ 
and above or equivalent either by Standard & Poors, Moody’s, Fitch-IBCA  or Japan  Credit 
Rating  Agency (JCRA).  The indemnity for this purpose should be similar to a guarantee i.e. 
unconditional and demand in nature.  
 
26. Major Shareholder of a bank/DFI means any person holding 5% or more of the share  capital  of  
a  bank/DFI  either  individually  or  in  concert  with  family members.  
 
27. Medium and Long Term Facilities mean facilities with maturities of more than one year and 
Short Term Facilities mean facilities with maturities up to one year. 
 
28. NBFC means Non-Banking Finance Company as defined in Section 282A of Companies 
Ordinance 1984 and includes Leasing  
Company, Housing Finance Company, Investment Bank, 
Discount House, Asset  Management Company and a Venture Capital Company. For the purpose  of 
these regulations Modaraba will also be considered as NBFC.    
 
29. Nominee Director means a person nominated on the board of a bank/DFI by sponsor(s), 
persons, company, institution etc. by virtue of his/their shareholding in a bank/DFI.  
 
30. PBA means Pakistan Banks Association. 
 
31. Person means and includes an individual, a Hindu undivided family, a firm, an association or 
body of individuals whether incorporated or not, a company and every other juridical person.  
 
32. Recognized Rating Agency means rating agency either on the approved panel of State Bank of 
Pakistan or Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, Fitch or Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCRA)  
 
33. Related Party in respect of a bank / DFI means:  
a.) Directors, CEO, sponsor shareholders, employees or any of their family members.  
b.) Any entity (proprietorship, firm, company or trust) in which a bank / DFI or any of the above 
persons are interested as director, proprietor, partner or as a shareholder holding 5% or more of paid-up 
capital in that entity.  
c.)  Any other entity which for its business acquisition or provision of services relies / depends to a 
greater extent on the bank/DFI i.e. major portion (50% or more) of its business (upstream or 
downstream) is with the bank/DFI.  
d.) The relationship of the related party on the basis of Nominee Director appointed by 
8 
 
Federal/Provincial government by virtue of their shareholding shall be excluded from this definition. 
However, it shall include personal/family business interests of such director.  
 
34. Secured means exposure backed by liquid assets, pledge stock, mortgage of land, plant, 
building, machinery or any other fixed assets, hypothecation of stock (inventory), trust receipt, 
assignment of receivable, lease rentals, and contact receivables but does not include 
hypothecation of household goods. The unsecured exposure will be considered as clean.  
 
35. Sponsor Shares1 mean 5% or more paid-up shares of a bank, acquired by a person(s) 
individually or in concert with his family members  (including his spouse, lineal ascendants and 
descendents and dependent brothers and sisters), group companies, subsidiaries,  and 
affiliates/associates.  Such  acquisition  of shareholding  will  include  all  the  shares  acquired  
by  aforesaid  person(s) including, interalia, through (a) as original subscriber/promoter of the bank; 
(b) subsequent  right/bonus  issues; (c)   market  based  acquisition  deal; (d) 
reconstruction/restructuring of a bank carried out by SBP;  (e) strategic sale through privatization 
(f) amalgamation of banking companies; or (g) any other mode of acquisition. All shares acquired by 
common shareholders, who are also sponsor shareholders, of amalgamating banking companies in 
amalgamation transaction shall be considered Sponsor Shares.  
 
36. Sponsor Shareholders2 mean all those shareholders of a bank holding sponsor shares. 
 
37. Sponsor Director3 means the member of the Board of Directors of a bank holding sponsor shares.    
 
38. Strategic Investment is an investment which a bank/DFI makes with the intention to hold it for 
a period of minimum 5 years.  
The following must be noted further in respect of strategic investment:  
a. The bank should mark strategic investment as such at the time of investment.  
b. If there are a series of purchases of stocks of a company, the minimum  retention period of 5 
years shall be counted from the date of the last purchase.  
 
39. Substantial ownership/affiliation4 means beneficial shareholding of more than 20% by a person 
and/or by his dependent family members, which will include his/her spouse, dependent lineal 
ascendants and descendants and dependent brothers and sisters. However, shareholding in or by 
the Government owned entities and   financial   institutions   will   not   constitute   substantial
 
ownership/affiliation, for the purpose of these regulations.  
 
40. Underwriting Commitments mean commitments given  by  commercial banks/DFIs to the 
limited companies at the time of new issue of equity/debt instrument, that in case the proposed issue 
of equity/debt instrument is not fully subscribed, the un-subscribed portion will be taken up by them 
(commercial banks/DFIs). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                            
1 Introduced vide BPRD Circular 4 of 2008 dated May 22, 2008. 
2 Introduced vide BPRD Circular 4 of 2008 dated May 22, 2008. 
3 Introduced vide BPRD Circular 4 of 2008 dated May 22, 2008. 
4
Introduced vide BPRD Circular No. 04 of 2007 dated April 23, 2007.  
 
 
 
9 
 
PART - B 
R E G U L A T I O N S 
REGULATION R-1  
EXPOSURE LIMITS  
 
1.   Single Obligor/Group Limit  
Exposure Limits for a single obligor, and obligor Group effective from 31-12-2013 and onward would 
be as under:  
 
 
Effective date 
Exposure limit as a % of bank’s/DFI’s equity 
(as disclosed in the latest audited financial statements) 
For single obligor  
For obligor group 
Total (fund and non-
fund based) exposure 
limit 
Fund based limit 
Total (fund and 
non-fund based) 
exposure limit 
Fund based 
limit 
31-12-2013  
25 
25 
25 
25 
30-06-2015 
20 
20 
25 
25 
 
2. Related Party Exposure Limit: 
 
Maximum exposure limit of a bank/DFI to its related party or group of related parties would be as 
under: 
  
Effective Date 
Total  exposure limit as a % of bank’s/DFI’s equity (as disclosed in 
the latest audited financial statements)  
For Single Related Party 
For Related Group  
30-06-2015 
7.5% 
15% 
 
The related party exposures shall be subject to the following:  
a) Loans given to employees under the Bank’s/DFI’s respective Human Resource policies duly 
approved by its BOD or Country Head (in case of branches of foreign banks) are excluded from 
this limit.  
b) Placement of funds of FE-25 deposits by the bank with its own branches/subsidiaries overseas shall 
also be excluded from this limit.  
c) Bank’s/DFI’s investment in common shareholding of its subsidiaries shall not be counted 
towards this exposure limit.  
d) Facilities extended to related parties should be at arm’s length basis and on normal terms & 
conditions applicable to other borrowers of the bank/DFI. Further, banks/DFIs shall ensure that  
the 
standards are not compromised in such cases and market rates are used while extending facilities to 
related parties. 
e) Banks shall also follow the requirements of section 24 of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962.  
 
3.   For the purpose of para 1 and 2 above, banks/DFIs are required to follow the guidelines given at 
Annexure-I. It is further clarified that the group will also cover SMEs, in cases where these are owned 
by the same group.  
 
4.   Large Exposure Limit:  
The aggregate amount of large exposures of a bank/DFI shall not, at any point in time, exceed 50% of 
its total gross advances and investments (excluding investment in government securities and loans 
secured against GOP guarantees). Large exposure limits shall not be applicable to investment in 
government securities and loans secured against GOP guarantees.  
 
5. Different concentration limits may be assigned to different banks/DFIs by SBP based on their 
supervisory assessment.  
 
REGULATION R-2  
LIMIT ON EXPOSURE AGAINST CONTINGENT LIABILITIES  
 
1. Contingent liabilities of a bank/DFI shall not exceed at any point in time 10 times of its equity.   
10 
 
2. 
The banks/DFIs that are Authorized Derivative Dealers in terms of BSD Circular No. 17 of 2004    
shall restrict their exposure to derivatives up to 5 times of their equity within overall limit of 
contingent liabilities.  
3. Following shall not constitute contingent liabilities for the purpose of this regulation:  
a)   Bills for collection.  
b)   Non-fund based exposure to the extent covered by cash/liquid assets.  
c)  Letters  of  credit/guarantee  where  the  payment  is  guaranteed  by  the  State  Bank  of      
Pakistan/Federal Government or banks/DFIs rated at least ‘A’ by a recognized  rating agency.  
d)   Claims other than those related to provision of facilities (fund based or non-fund based) to the 
banks’/DFIs’ constituents, where the probability of conversion of these claims into liabilities are 
remote.  
4. 
 For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  weightage  of  50% shall be given to  bid/mobilization     
advance/performance bonds and 10% to forward foreign exchange contracts.  
 
 REGULATION R-3  
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS & OTHER CONDITIONS  
 
1. 
  Financial Analysis:  
a)  At the time of allowing any exposure (including renewal, enhancement and rescheduling / 
restructuring) and annual review of long term facilities, Banks/DFIs shall, as a matter of rule, obtain a 
copy of financial statements relating to the business of every borrower. The financial statements 
should be duly audited by a practicing Chartered Accountant. In case of a borrower other than a 
public company or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, financial 
statements  audited  by  a  practicing  Cost  and  Management  Accountant  are  reckoned  equally 
acceptable.    However, if the borrower is a public limited company and aggregate exposure from all 
Banks/DFIs exceeds Rs.  500 million, banks/DFIs should obtain the financial statements duly 
audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants which has received satisfactory rating under the Quality 
Control  Review (QCR)  Program  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Pakistan. 
Subsequently, if the firm’s rating is downgraded in QCR program, then the financial statements of 
such borrowers should be audited in the subsequent year by a firm having satisfactory rating under 
QCR.  
 
b)   In case of public sector entities and allied departments / divisions of government which are not 
under  obligation  to  prepare  and  get  audited  their  annual  financials  from  accounting  firms, 
banks/DFIs should devise criteria to obtain management accounts or some other mechanism be 
adopted to assess their financial position and performance.  
 
c)  The Board of Directors of the bank/DFI shall approve a credit policy prescribing a minimum 
current ratio and linkage between borrower’s equity and its total financing facilities from all 
financial institutions. The Credit Policy shall emphasize upon higher credit standards and provide full 
guidance to the management about the above requirements for various categories of clients and 
corresponding risk mitigants etc. acceptable to the bank/DFI. The policy shall also have explicit 
provisions  for  circumstances  or  conditions  under  which  the  bank/DFI  may  extend  financing 
facilities that are in breach of these limits, should the bank decide to do so. The policy shall clearly 
provide approving authorities that would be responsible to allow exemptions in accordance with the 
policy. All such exceptions allowed shall be reported to the Board of Directors at least on quarterly 
basis. 
 
d) Banks/DFIs are advised to properly assess the credit need of the borrower based on their 
financial analysis and genuine credit requirements.  
 
2.  Credit Report  While  considering   proposals   for   any   exposure  
(including 
 
 
renewal,   
enhancement   and rescheduling/restructuring), banks/DFIs should give due weightage to the credit 
report relating to the borrower and its group obtained from Credit Information Bureau (CIB) of State 
Bank of Pakistan.   If the  banks/DFIs    decide  to  take  exposure  on  defaulters,  they  should  
strictly  follow  their  risk management policies and credit approval criteria and  properly record 
reasons and justifications in the approval form. The banks/DFIs shall ensure that CIB report is not 
older than two months at the time of approval of credit limits.     
 
11 
 
3. Borrower Basic Fact Sheet  Banks/DFIs are required to obtain Borrower’s Basic Fact Sheet 
(BBFS) as per format given at Annexure-II  from  their  prospective  borrowers  at  the  time  of 
sanctioning  fresh  facility,  or enhancement, renewal, rescheduling and restructuring of an existing 
facility. However, if the Loan Application Form already contains all the information as required in 
BBFS, then no separate BBFS may be required.   
 
REGULATION R-4 
SECURITY AND MARGIN REQUIREMENTS  
 
1.   Security Requirements  
a) All exposures shall be adequately secured. However, banks/DFIs, in aggregate, may provide clean 
financing facility in any form up to Rs 2,000,000/- (Rupees two million only) to any single 
obligor.  Financing facilities  granted without securities including those granted against personal 
guarantees shall be deemed as ‘clean’ for the purpose of this regulation. Further, at the time of 
granting a clean facility, banks/DFIs shall obtain a written declaration to the effect that the borrower, 
has not availed of such facilities from other banks/DFIs so as to exceed the prescribed limit of Rs 
2,000,000/- in aggregate.  
b) In case of clean placements with banks/DFIs in Pakistan, single obligor limits given in 
Prudential Regulation R-1 shall be observed.   However, for Banks/DFIs rated below ‘A-3’ (short 
term) or ‘BBB’ (long term) clean exposure limit given in para a) above shall be applicable.  
c) In case of Nostro Balances with financial institutions abroad, banks shall prudently set limits duly 
approved by their Board of Directors and that shall be exempt from the above limits.  
 
d) Banks/DFIs shall ensure that the aggregate exposure against all their clean facilities shall not, at any 
point in time, exceed the amount of their equity as disclosed in their latest audited financial 
statements. However, following shall be excluded / exempted from aggregate limits for unsecured / 
clean exposure:  
(i) Facilities provided to finance the export of commodities eligible under Export Finance Scheme 
 
backed by LCs.  
(ii) Financing covered by the guarantee of Pakistan Export Finance Guarantee Agency up to the
 
amount of guarantee.  
(iii) Loans/ advances given to the employees of the banks/ DFIs in accordance with their 
entitlement / staff loan policy. 
(iv) Investment in COIs / interbank placements with NBFCs, provided the investee NBFC is at least 
 
rated ‘A’ for long-term rating and ‘A2’ for short-term rating or equivalent by a   recognized  rating 
agency.  
(v) Investment of banks/DFIs in subordinated and unsecured TFCs, issued by other banks/DFIs to 
 
raise Tier-II Capital as per State Bank of Pakistan’s instructions.  
e) Banks/DFIs will be free to decide about obtaining security/collateral against the L/C facilities for 
the interim period, i.e. from the date of opening of L/C till the receipt of title documents to the 
goods.  
 
2.   Requirement of Personal Guarantee  
Banks/DFIs shall formulate a policy, duly approved by their Board of Directors, about obtaining 
personal guarantees of directors of private limited companies. Banks/DFIs may, at their discretion, 
link this requirement to the credit rating of the borrower, their past experience with it or its financial 
strength and operating performance.  
 
3.   Margin Requirements  
a)  Banks/DFIs are free to determine the margin requirements on facilities provided by them to their 
clients  taking into account the risk profile of the borrower(s) in order to secure their interests. 
However, in cases where margin has been prescribed by State Bank/Government of Pakistan, 
appropriate margin shall at least be equal to the prescribed margin.  
 
b)  Exposure against the shares of listed companies shall be subject to minimum margin of 30% of 
their current market value. However, the banks/DFIs may consider to set higher margin requirements, 
and maintain list of shares acceptable as security, keeping in view liquidity, trading activity and other 
factors. Banks/DFIs will monitor the margin at least on weekly basis and will take appropriate action 
for top-up and sell-out on the basis of their Board of Directors’ approved credit policy and prior 
12 
 
written authorization from the borrower enabling the bank/DFI to do this.  
 
c)  Exposure against TFCs/Sukuks rated ‘BBB’ and above by a credit rating agency on the approved 
panel of State Bank of Pakistan shall be subject to a minimum margin of 20%.  
 
d) The cash margin requirement of 100% on Caustic Soda (PCT heading 2815.1200) for opening 
Import Letter of Credit as advised by the Federal Government and notified in terms of BPD Circular 
Letter No. 5 dated 4th May, 2002, will also continue to remain applicable.  
 
REGULATION R-5  
MONITORING  
 
1. Collateral Management  
a)  The banks/DFIs shall have in place Collateral Management Policy duly approved by the BOD or 
Country Head (in case of branches of foreign banks). The policy may be part of the bank’s overall 
credit policy or separate as deemed appropriate by the bank/DFI. The Policy shall cover different 
aspects related to collateral such as generally acceptable forms, quality, valuation at the time of 
acceptance as well as over the tenor of loan, haircuts, price volatility, diversification, margin calls 
limits, substitution of collateral and managing collateral in the event of a counterparty default.  
b)  The policy shall clearly delineate the responsibilities in various scenarios, including safe custody 
& inspection of collateral, where bank/DFI is a sole lender or where it is one of multiple lenders. In 
the later case the policy should cover the aspect of coordination with other financial institutions 
particularly where financing is made against hypothecation of stock and/or receivables on pari-passu 
or ranking charge basis and pledge of stock.  
c)  The Banks/DFIs shall devise an appropriate mechanism to ensure that the financing extended is 
utilized for the intended purpose. Further, they will also ensure that financing is not used for non 
productive purpose like hoarding, speculation etc.  
 
2.   Joint Inspection of Pledged Stocks  
a)  All  the  banks/DFIs  financing  any  particular  customer  against  pledge  of  stocks  of  below 
mentioned commodities shall conduct joint inspection of the pledged stocks at least once in a quarter, 
where aggregate exposure against such stocks equals or exceeds the amount shown against each 
commodity:  
 
Sr. No. 
Commodity 
Aggregate Committed 
Exposure (limits) 
1 
Cotton (bales), excluding phutti 
Rs. 500 million ` 
2 
Sugar 
Rs. 500 million 
3 
Wheat 
Rs. 250 million 
4 
Rice/Paddy 
Rs. 150 million 
5 
Edible Oil 
Rs. 250 million 
 
Nonetheless, the banks/DFIs can, if they decide so, voluntarily conduct joint inspections for smaller 
committed exposures and for commodities other than the ones mentioned above.  
b) The bank/DFI with the largest committed exposure (limit) shall act as the lead bank/DFI to 
coordinate the quarterly joint inspection. In case two or more banks/DFIs have the same level of 
highest  committed  exposure,  they  shall  mutually  agree  on  which  bank/DFI  to  assume  the 
responsibility.  The  lead  bank/DFI  once  selected  shall  perform  coordination  for  one  year  and 
subsequently transfer the responsibility if, during the one year period, some other bank/DFI commits 
the largest exposure. In case of syndicate financing against pledge of stocks, the agent bank/DFI shall 
act as the lead bank/DFI for coordinating the quarterly joint inspection.  
c)  The Borrower’s Basic Fact Sheet (BBFS) shall serve as the main source for obtaining information 
on exposures committed by the banks/DFIs against pledged stocks for any particular customer. Any 
bank/DFI taking exposure on a customer against pledge of stocks shall inform, after seeking prior 
written consent from obligor as per law, about the same to all the banks/DFIs already financing that 
customer, within five working days of the credit approval.   
 
 
 
13 
 
REGULATION R-6  
EXPOSURE IN SHARES AND TFCs/SUKUK  
 
1. 
Acquisition of Shares/Mutual Funds: 
A. 
Single Company Investment Limit: 
i) Banks / DFIs shall not own shares of any single company in excess of 5% of their own equity.      
This limit will also be applicable to units of all types of mutual funds and REITs.  
ii) Banks/DFIs will obtain prior approval from the State Bank for purchasing shares of a 
company exceeding, in aggregate, 10% of the capital of Investee Company or 5% of their paid-up 
capital, whichever is lower. These limits will be calculated as under:  
iii) 
  In the case of investee company, limit will be calculated by taking 10% of the number of its paid-
up shares,  
iv) 
  In the case of investing bank/DFI, limit will be calculated by taking 5% of paid-up  shares 
of 
the bank/DFI, and then multiplying with their face value.  
The bank’s/DFI's request will be considered in the light of the nature of relationship of the 
investing bank and the investee company. Further, other factors, such as financial standing of the 
investing bank, its aggregate investment portfolio, experience in managing the same, efficacy of 
internal controls etc. will also be taken into account.  
 
B.  Aggregate Investment Limits:  
i.)   Aggregate  equity  investment  limit  for  banks,  and  DFIs  which  are mobilizing funds  as 
 
deposits/COIs from general public/individuals, shall be 30% of their respective equity.  
ii.)  For Islamic banks, and DFIs which are not mobilizing funds as deposits/COIs from general 
 
public/individuals, the aggregate investment limit will be 35% of their respective equity.  
iii.) Within the above limits, Banks/DFIs may take maximum exposure in future contracts up to  10% 
of their equity on aggregate basis. In this connection, the 10% exposure limit for future  contracts will 
include both positions taken in futures buying and selling.  
iv.) Exposure as a result of strategic investment and investment in units of all forms of Mutual 
Funds, excluding NIT units till its privatization, shall also be considered part of above limits.  
v.) Aggregate investment limit in units of REIT shall be  10% of equity of the bank/DFI, 
exclusive of the above aggregate limits.  
vi.) Investments of the bank/DFI in its subsidiary companies (listed as well as non-listed) shall not  be 
included in these limits.  
 
2. The limits  prescribed  in  para 1 above shall  not  apply  to  the  shares  acquired  due  to  the 
underwriting commitments, satisfaction of debts or debt-equity conversion scheme. However these 
will be sold off/off loaded within a period of eighteen months; otherwise the same will be counted 
towards the above limit from the expiry of that period. The banks/DFIs are required to plan their 
disposal to ensure compliance within the due date.  
 
3. Investment in preference shares, which fulfill the criteria of equity instrument as laid down in 
Annexure-III, shall be considered as part of investment in equities.  Correspondingly, any investment 
in preference shares that do not conform to these conditions shall not be included in  the 
limits 
prescribed under this regulation. However, such investment portfolio will be considered  as part of the 
maximum exposure limit as prescribed under R-1 of these regulations.  
 
4. For the purpose of calculating bank’s/DFI’s exposure, investments will be valued at cost of 
acquisition unless mentioned otherwise. While calculating the maximum limit for investment in 
shares, the amount of provisions created against permanent impairment by debiting the Profit &  
Loss 
account, as instructed vide BSD Circular No.10 dated July 13, 2004, may be deducted from  the cost of 
acquisition of such investments and the maximum limit.  
 
5. Financing against Shares/TFCs/Sukuk 
Banks/DFIs shall not: 
a) take exposure against the security of shares/TFCs/Sukuk issued by them. 
b) provide unsecured credit to finance subscription towards floatation of share capital and issue of 
TFCs/Sukuk. 
c) take exposure against the non-listed TFCs/Sukuk or the shares of companies not listed on the Stock 
Exchange(s). However, banks/DFIs may make direct investment in non-listed TFCs. 
14 
 
d) take exposure on any person against the shares/TFCs/Sukuk issued by that person or its group 
companies. 
e) take exposure against ‘sponsor director’s shares’ (issued in their own name or in the name of their 
family members) of banks/DFIs. 
f) take exposure on any one person (whether singly or together with other family members or 
companies owned and controlled by him or his family members) against shares of any 
commercial bank/DFI in excess of 5% of paid-up capital of the share issuing bank/DFI.  
g) take exposure against the shares/TFCs of listed companies that are not member of the Central 
Depository System.  
h) take  exposure  against  unsecured  or  non-rated  TFCs  or  TFCs rated  below ‘BBB’ or 
equivalent. Exposure may, however, be taken against unsecured/subordinated TFCs, which are issued 
by the banks/DFIs for meeting their minimum capital requirements, as per terms and conditions 
stipulated in BSD Circular No. 8 of June 27, 2006.  
i) take exposure against shares unless the beneficiary of the facility is absolute owner of the shares so 
pledged or has the necessary mandate to pledge the shares of third party as security for availing 
financing facility from the bank/ DFI.  
 
REGULATION R-7  
GUARANTEES  
 
1. All guarantees issued by the banks/DFIs shall be fully secured, except in the cases mentioned at 
Annexure-IV where it may be waived up to 50% by the banks/DFIs at their own discretion, provided 
that banks/DFIs hold at least 20% of the guaranteed amount in the form of liquid assets as security.  
 
2. The banks/DFIs can issue guarantees on behalf of Pakistani firms and companies functioning in 
Pakistan against the back to back/counter-guarantees of banks/DFIs rated at least ‘A’ or equivalent by a 
credit rating agency on the approved panel of State Bank of Pakistan. Besides, the counter-guarantee of  
bank/DFI situated in a foreign country is also acceptable if it has the rating of at least 'A' or 
equivalent on global or National Rating scale by Standard & Poor, Moody's, Fitch, Japan Credit 
Rating Agency (JCRA) or a local credit rating agency of the respective country provided the 
guarantee issuing bank in Pakistan is comfortable with and accepts the counter -guarantee of such 
foreign bank.  
 
3. Furthermore, the Banks/DFIs may provide guarantees/ performance bonds, in favour of residents of 
Pakistan, on the basis of counter guarantee of the banks falling within the world ranking of 1000 on the 
basis of Balance Sheet size. In this regard the banks/DFIs will have a Board approved policy 
having internal limits for acceptance of such counter guarantees based on, interalia, their own risk 
appetite and risk profile of the counter-guarantee issuing bank. The Banks/DFIs shall also institute a 
mechanism to monitor such limits.  
 
4. Banks/DFIs shall ensure that counter-guarantees received are properly evaluated and their own 
guarantees against such guarantees are issued with due care.  
 
5. Cases where payments are not received within 20 working days by the banks/DFIs when the 
guarantees of overseas banks are invoked, shall be reported to SBP indicating the steps being taken by 
the bank/DFI to recover the amount due under the guarantee.  
 
6. In case of back to back letter of credit issued by the banks/DFIs for export oriented goods and 
services, banks/DFIs are free to decide the security arrangements at their own discretion subject to the 
condition that the original L/C has been established by branches of guarantee issuing bank or a bank 
rated at least ‘A’ by Standard & Poor, Moody’s, Fitch or Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCRA).  
 
7. The guarantees shall be for a specific amount and expiry date and shall contain claim lodgment 
date. However, banks/DFIs are allowed to issue open-ended guarantees without clearance from State 
Bank of Pakistan provided banks/DFIs have secured their interest by adequate collateral or other 
arrangements acceptable to the bank/DFI for issuance of such guarantees in favour of Government 
departments, corporations/autonomous bodies owned/controlled by the Government and guarantees 
required by the courts.  
 
15 
 
REGULATION R-8  
CLASSIFICATION AND PROVISIONING FOR ASSETS  
 
1.   Loans/Advances:  
a) Banks/DFIs shall observe the prudential guidelines given at Annexure-V in the matter of 
classification of their asset portfolio and provisioning there-against on time based criteria.  
 
b)  In  addition  to  the  time-based  criteria  prescribed  in  Annexure-V,  subjective  evaluation  of 
performing and non-performing credit portfolio shall be made for risk assessment and, where 
considered necessary, any account including the performing account will be classified, and the 
category of classification  determined  on the basis  of  time based  criteria  shall  be  further 
downgraded. Such evaluation shall be carried out on the basis of credit worthiness of the 
borrower, its cash flow, operation in the account, adequacy of the security, inclusive of its 
realizable value and documentation covering the advances.  
 
2.  Benefit of collateral/security held: 
a) Banks/DFIs are allowed to take the benefit of Forced Sale Value (FSV) of the pledged stocks, plant 
& machinery under charge,  and  mortgaged  residential,  commercial  and  industrial properties held 
as collateral against Non Performing Loans (NPLs) for calculating provisioning requirement as 
tabulated above. 
The benefit of FSV against NPLs shall not be available after the period prescribed above. For the 
purpose of determination of FSV, Annexure-VI of PR for Corporate / Commercial Banking shall 
be followed.  
b) Banks/DFIs may avail the above benefit of FSV subject to compliance with the following 
conditions:  
i.) The additional impact on profitability arising from availing the benefit of FSV shall not be  
available 
for payment of cash or stock dividend/bonus to employees.  
ii.) Heads of Credit of respective banks/DFIs shall ensure that FSV used for taking benefit of 
provisioning is determined accurately as per guidelines contained in PRs and is reflective of market 
conditions under forced sale situations; and 
iii.)   Borrower-wise details of all such cases where banks/DFIs have availed the benefit of FSV shall be 
maintained for verification by State Bank’s inspection team during regular/special inspection.  
c) Any misuse of FSV benefit detected during regular/special inspection of State Bank shall
 
attract  strict  punitive  action  under  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Banking  Companies
 
Ordinance,  1962. Furthermore, State Bank may also withdraw the benefit of FSV from
 
bank/DFI found involved in its misuse.  
 
3. Rescheduling/Restructuring:  
a)  
Banks/DFIs may reschedule/restructure their loans as per their policy but it should not merely to 
avoid classification. The rescheduling/restructuring of non-performing loans shall not change the 
status of classification of a loan/advance etc. unless the terms and conditions of 
rescheduling/restructuring are fully met for a period of at least one year (excluding grace period, if 
any) from the date of such rescheduling/restructuring and at least 10% of the   total restructured loan 
Category of Asset  
Forced Sale Value Benefit allowed from 
the date of classification 
Mortgaged residential, commercial and industrial 
properties (land & building only) 
• 75% for first year  
• 60% for second year  
• 45% for third year  
• 30% for fourth year, and  
• 20% for fifth year  
Plant & Machinery under charge  
• 30% for first year  
• 20% for second year, and  
• 10% for third year  
Pledged stock  
• 40% for first, second, and third year  
16 
 
amount (principal + mark-up), is recovered in cash. However, the condition of one year retention 
period, prescribed for restructured/rescheduled loan account to remain in the classified category, will 
not apply in case the borrower has repaid or adjusted in cash at least 35% of the total restructured 
loan amount (principal + mark-up), either at the time of restructuring agreement or later-on during the 
grace period if any.  
b)  The unrealized mark-up on loans (declassified after rescheduling/restructuring) shall not be taken 
to income account unless at least 50% of the amount is realized in cash. However, any short 
recovery in this respect will not impact the de-classification of this account if all other criteria 
(meeting the terms and conditions for at least one year and payment of at least 10% of outstanding 
amount by the borrower) are met. The banks/DFIs are further directed to ensure that status of 
classification, as well as provisioning, is not changed in relevant reports to the State Bank of 
Pakistan merely because a loan has been rescheduled or restructured.   However, while reporting to 
the Credit Information Bureau (CIB) of State Bank of Pakistan, such loans/advances may be shown as 
‘rescheduled/restructured’ instead of ‘overdue’.  
c)  
Where  a  borrower  subsequently  defaults  
(either   principal   or   mark-up)   after   the  
rescheduled/restructured loan has been declassified by the bank/DFI as per above guidelines, the loan  
will   again  be  classified   in   the   same  category  it   was  in   at  the  time  of 
rescheduling/restructuring and the unrealized markup on such loans taken to income account shall also  
be  reversed.    However, banks/DFIs at their discretion may further downgrade the classification, 
taking into account the subjective criteria.  
d)  At the time of rescheduling/restructuring, banks/DFIs shall consider and examine the requests for  
working capital strictly on merit, keeping in view the viability of the project/business and 
appropriately securing their interest etc.  
e)  All fresh loans granted by the banks/DFIs to a borrower after rescheduling/ restructuring of its 
existing facilities may be monitored separately, and will be subject to classification under this 
Regulation on the strength of their own specific terms and conditions.  
 
4.  Investments and Other Assets:  
The banks shall classify their investments into three categories viz. ‘Held for Trading’, ‘Available for 
Sale’ and ‘Held to Maturity’. However, investments in subsidiaries and associates shall be reported 
separately in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as applicable in Pakistan 
and shall not be subject to mark to market. All investments and other assets shall be tested for 
impairment periodically. Investment portfolio in ‘Held for Trading’ and ‘Available for Sale’ and other 
assets will be subject to detailed evaluation for the purpose of their classification keeping in view 
various subjective and objective factors given as under.  
 
a)  Quoted Securities:  
Government Securities will be valued at PKRV (Reuter Page). TFCs, PTCs, Sukuk and shares will be 
valued at their market value. The difference between the market value and book value will be treated 
as surplus/deficit.  
 
b)  Un-quoted Securities:  
PTCs and TFCs and Sukuk will be classified on the valuation date on the basis of default in their 
repayment in line with the criteria prescribed for classification of medium and long-term facilities. 
Shares will be carried at the cost. However, in cases where the breakup value of such shares is less than 
the cost, the difference of the cost and breakup value will be classified as loss and provided for 
accordingly by charging to the Profit and Loss account of the bank/DFI.  
 
c)  Treatment of Surplus/deficit:  
The measurement of surplus/deficit shall be done on portfolio basis in line with BSD Circular No. 10 of 
2004 as amended from time to time. That is, surplus/deficit arising as a result of revaluation of ‘Held 
for Trading’ securities shall be taken into Profit & Loss Account. The surplus/deficit on revaluation of 
‘Available for Sale’ category shall be taken to “Surplus/Deficit on Revaluation of Securities” through 
“Statement of Comprehensive Income.” and not to Profit and Loss Account. Impairment in the value of 
‘Available for Sale’ or ‘Held to Maturity’ securities will be provided for by charging it to the Profit and 
Loss Account.  
 
d)  Other Assets:  
Classification of Other Assets and provision required there-against shall be determined keeping in view 
17 
 
the risk involved and the requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards.  
 
5.  Timing of Creating Provisions:  
Banks/DFIs shall review, at least on a quarterly basis, the collectability of their loans/advances 
portfolio and shall properly document the evaluations so made. Shortfall in provisioning, if any, 
determined, as a result of quarterly assessment shall be provided for immediately in their books of 
accounts by the banks/DFIs on quarterly basis.  
 
6.  Reversal of Provision:  
In case of cash recovery banks/DFIs may reverse specific provision held against classified assets, 
subject to the condition that provision will be maintained in accordance with Annexure V.  
 
However, the accounts classified and provision made on the advice of State Bank of Pakistan will not 
be declassified / provision will not be reversed without prior approval of State Bank of Pakistan, 
except in cases where cash recovery has been made through customer’s own sources, to the extent that 
balance provision is maintained in accordance with this regulation.  
 
7.  Verification by the Auditors:  
The external auditors as a part of their annual audits of banks/DFIs shall verify that all requirements 
of Regulation R-8 for classification and provisioning for assets have been complied with. The State 
Bank of Pakistan shall also check the adequacy of provisioning during on-site inspection.  
 
REGULATION R-9  
ASSUMING OBLIGATIONS ON BEHALF OF NBFCs  
 
1. Banks/DFIs shall not issue any guarantee or letter of comfort nor assume any obligation 
whatsoever in respect of deposits, sale of investment certificates, issue of commercial papers, or 
borrowings of any non-banking finance company.  
2. Banks/DFIs may, however, underwrite TFCs, commercial papers and other debt instruments issued 
by NBFCs, and issue guarantees in favor of multilateral agencies for providing credit to NBFCs.  
Banks/DFIs may also allow exposure to any of their client against the guarantee of an NBFC which is 
rated at least ‘A’ or equivalent by a credit rating agency on the approved panel of State Bank of 
Pakistan. However, the banks/DFIs shall ensure that such aggregate exposure remains within the 
single obligor exposure limit as prescribed in Regulation R-1.  
3. Before taking exposure against the guarantee of NBFC, banks/DFIs shall ensure that total 
guarantees issued by an NBFC in favour of banks/DFIs do not exceed 2.5 times of capital of the 
NBFC as evidenced by the latest available audited financial statements of the NBFC and such other 
means as the banks/DFIs may deem appropriate.  
 
REGULATION R-10  
PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND  
 
Banks/DFIs shall not pay any dividend on their shares unless and until:  
a) they meet the minimum capital requirement  (MCR) and capital adequacy ratio requirement 
(CAR) as laid down by the State Bank of Pakistan from time to time;  
b) all their classified assets have been fully and duly provided for in accordance with the Prudential 
Regulations and to the satisfaction of the State Bank of Pakistan; and  
c) all the requirements laid down in Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962 relating to payment of 
dividend are fully complied.  
                
REGULATION G-1  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE/BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT  
 
The following guidelines are required to be followed by banks/DFIs incorporated in Pakistan. They 
will also follow ‘Code of Corporate Governance’ issued by the Securities & Exchange 
Commission of Pakistan (SECP) so long as any provision thereof does not conflict with any 
provision of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962, Prudential Regulations and the 
instructions/guidelines issued by the State Bank of Pakistan. Foreign banks are required to adhere to 
these guidelines wherever feasible and applicable. However, they need not necessarily seek approval 
18 
 
of their Board of Directors, as stipulated below in the case of local banks/DFIs:  
 
A.    FIT AND PROPER TEST  
The “Fit and Proper Test” (FPT) is applicable on the sponsors (both individual & companies) who 
apply for a commercial banking license, the investors acquiring strategic/controlling stake in the 
banks/DFIs, major shareholders of the banking companies and for the appointment of Directors, 
CEO, and Key Executives of the banks/DFIs. The fitness & propriety will be assessed on the 
following broad elements (Annexure A): 
a) Integrity, Honesty & Reputation  
b) Track Record 
c) Solvency & Integrity 
d) Qualification & Experience 
e) Conflict of Interest 
f) Others 
 
2. First three elements are applicable to all categories of individuals, whereas the last three elements 
will be considered while assessing the FPT of Directors, CEO& Key Executives of banks/DFIs. In 
addition to above requirements, sponsors and strategic investors are evaluated respectively in terms 
of “Guidelines & Criteria for setting  up  of  a  Commercial  Bank”  & “Criteria  for  Establishment  
of  Islamic Commercial Banks” issued by SBP and Code of Corporate Governance issued by SECP.  
3.  The sponsors, the strategic investors, and appointment of the Directors and CEO require prior 
clearance in writing from SBP. The CEO and Key Executives shall be full time employees of the 
bank/DFI. The Directors and CEO will not assume the charge of their respective offices until their 
appointments are approved in writing by SBP. All the requests for seeking approval of SBP for 
appointment of Directors& CEO of the banks/DFIs should be routed through respective banks/DFIs 
along with information on Annexure-I & II (of Corporate Governance).  
4.  The appointment of Key Executives will not require prior clearance of SBP. However, Banks 
will seek State Bank’s prior approval for overseas appointments.1  Further, the banks/DFIs must 
themselves ensure while appointing Key Executives that they qualify FPT in letter and spirit. The 
information on appointment of Key Executive is required to be forwarded to SBP on prescribed 
format at Annexure-III (of Corporate Governance) within seven days of assumption of the charge of 
the post by the incumbent. The information submitted may be checked on post fact basis by 
Banking Inspection Department of SBP during inspection.  
5.  Further, to ensure compliance with SBP’s FPT Criteria in respect of appointment on key positions, 
the Banks/DFIs shall conduct prior self assessment of the fitness and propriety of their Directors, 
Presidents/CEOs and Key Executives and furnish an undertaking to this effect as per enclosed 
Annexure-IV(of Corporate Governance). Any FPT documents received without the undertaking shall 
not be considered by SBP.2 
6. 
Moreover, 
the 
appointment, 
compensation 
package 
(including 
retirement 
benefits), 
promotion/demotion and renewal of the employment contracts of Key Executives shall invariably be 
approved by the Board of Directors or the concerned Board Committee of the Bank/DFI. The Board 
of Directors shall also formulate an organization-wide rotation policy, inter-alia ensuring that the Key 
Executives are rotated appropriately after having served on a particular position for a reasonable time 
(five to six years). However, for those Key Executives who have already completed six years in the 
same position, the rotation should take effect immediately after implementation of rotation policy. 
Under extreme situations only, the positions of Head of IT, Treasury, HR, Islamic Banking, Legal, 
Company/Corporate Secretary, Chief Operating Officer (COO) and Deputy CEO/Deputy MD may be 
exempted from compulsory rotation. Further, the Banks/DFIs shall ensure that none of the posts of 
Key Executives shall be filled by an executive on acting/additional charge basis for more than three 
(3) months. 
 
7. The sponsors are required to seek prior approval of SBP along with the information at 
                                                            
1   Inserted vide BPRD Circular No. 05 of 2009 dated March 05, 2009 
2  Para 5 & 6 inserted vide BPRD Circular No. 5 of 2015 dated March 12, 2015. 
19 
 
Annexure-II and other information as required in the “Guidelines & Criteria for Setting up a 
Commercial Bank” and” Criteria for Establishment of Islamic  Commercial  Banks”.  The  
strategic  investors  contemplating  to  acquire strategic/controlling stake are required to seek 
prior approval from SBP either directly or through the concerned department/Ministry of 
Government executing strategic sale transaction of the bank as required and provided in the 
transaction structure. The bank should also ensure to give prior intimation to SBP before dealing with 
any investors/bank/institutions/person for sale/purchase of sponsors/ strategic shares and seek 
approval of SBP for conducting due diligence of bank/DFI in terms of BPD Circular No. 8 of 2003.  
 
8. The major shareholders are required to seek prior approval in writing from SBP for acquiring 5% 
or more shares along-with information on Annexure-II, with proper justification for holding more 
than 5% shares of the paid up capital. All the banks/DFIs are required to ensure that major 
shareholders have sought such an approval from SBP and place it on record.  
 
9. Fit & Proper Test prescribed in the guideline is continuous in nature. All persons subject to 
FPT should immediately submit any change in the information already submitted (at the time of 
clearance) either through Company Secretary or Human Resources Department to Banking Policy 
and Regulations Department. Violation of the instructions, circumvention, concealment, misreporting 
and delay in submission of information to SBP may result in withdrawal of SBP approval, besides 
penal action under the provisions of BCO.  
 
10. Deposit of sponsor shares in blocked account with Central Depository Company of Pakistan 
(CDC).1 
a) All sponsor shares and subsequent right and bonus shares shall be deposited in a blocked 
account with CDC. The procedure for deposit of sponsor shares in the  CDC blocked account is 
provided at Annexure-AA of Corporate Governance (BPRD Circular No. 04 of 2008).  
b) No withdrawal of the sponsor shares from the blocked account would be allowed without prior   
written permission of SBP.  
c)  Blocked Account should be opened by the sponsor shareholders of banks  exclusively 
for 
deposit of the sponsor shares and subsequent right and bonus shares issued thereon.  
d) Charges for opening and operating of the blocked account with CDC will be borne by the 
sponsor shareholders.  
e) These instructions shall not be applicable to the shareholding of Federal and Provincial 
governments in banks.  
 
11.  
Every Chairman, Managing Director or Chief Executive Officer (by whatever name called) of a 
banking company shall furnish to the State Bank of Pakistan through the banking company returns on 
yearly basis containing full particulars of the extent and value of his holding of shares, whether 
directly or indirectly, in the banking company and of any change in the extent of such holding or any 
variation in the rights attaching thereto as per attached annexure (referred as Annexure-I in the 
circular) within 15 days of the close of each calendar year.2 
 
B.     RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:  
 
1. The Board of Directors shall assume its role independent of the influence of the 
Management and should know its responsibilities and powers in clear terms. It should be 
ensured that the Board of Directors focus on policy making and general direction, oversight and 
supervision of the affairs and business of the bank/DFI and does not play any role in the day-
to-day operations, as that is the role of the Management.  
 
2. The Board shall approve and monitor the objectives, strategies and overall business plans of the 
institution and shall oversee that the affairs of the institution are carried out prudently within the 
framework of existing laws & regulations and high business ethics.  
 
3. All the members of the Board should undertake and fulfill their duties & responsibilities 
                                                            
1   Inserted vide BPRD Circular No. 4 of 2008 dated May 28, 2008 
2   Introduced vide BPRD Circular No. 04 of 2010 dated March 04, 2010. 
20 
 
keeping in view their legal obligations under all the applicable laws and regulations. All Board 
members should preferably attend at least 1-2 weeks training program(s) which will enable 
them to play effective role as a director of bank/DFI, at an institution like Pakistan Institute of 
Corporate Governance or other similar institution within first year of their directorship on the 
Board of bank/DFI. Further, the Company Secretary of the Banks/DFIs shall provide to all Board 
members the extracts from the relevant laws, rules and regulations regarding their powers, duties 
and responsibilities and keep them updated of any revisions/amendments therein.1 
 
4. The Board shall clearly define the authorities and key responsibilities of both the Directors and 
the Senior Management without delegating its policy-making powers to the Management and 
shall ensure that the Management is in the hands of qualified personnel.  
 
5. The Board shall approve and ensure implementation of policies, including but not limited to, in 
areas of Risk Management, Credit, Treasury & Investment, Internal Control System and Audit, IT 
Security, Human Resource, Expenditure, Accounting & Disclosure,  and  any  other  
operational  area  which  the  Board  and/or  the Management may deem appropriate from 
time to time. The Board shall also be responsible to review and update existing policies 
periodically and whenever circumstances justify.  
 
6. As regards Internal Audit or Internal Control, a separate department shall be created which shall 
be manned preferably by professionals responsible to conduct audit  of  the  bank’s/DFI’s  
various  Divisions,  Offices,  Units,  Branches  etc.  in accordance with the guidelines of the 
Audit Manual duly approved by the Broad of Directors. The Head of this department will report 
directly to the Board of Directors or Board Committee on Internal Audit.  
 
7. The business conditions and markets are ever changing and so are their requirements. The 
Board, therefore, is required to ensure existence of an effective ‘Management Information 
System’  to  remain  fully  informed  of  the  activities, operating performance and financial 
condition of the institution, the environment in which it operates, the various risks it is exposed 
to and to evaluate performance of the Management at regular intervals.  
 
8. The Board should meet frequently (preferably on monthly basis, but in any event, not less than 
once every quarter) and the individual directors of an institution should attend at least half of the 
meetings held in a financial year. The Board should ensure that it receives sufficient information 
from Management on the agenda items well in advance of each meeting to enable it to 
effectively participate in and contribute to each meeting. Any advisor, if appointed by the 
Board member, shall neither attend the Board meeting(s) on behalf of the Board member 
nor shall regularly sit in the Board meeting(s) as an observer or any other capacity. Further, the 
banks/DFIs, incorporated in Pakistan, shall submit certified copies of the minutes of meeting of 
their Board of Directors (BoD) and the General Meetings /Extra Ordinary General Meetings 
(AGMs/EOGMs), within twenty one days of the date of the meeting to the Director, Off-site 
Supervision and Enforcement Department, State Bank of Pakistan, Karachi. It may be ensured 
that the minutes also contain the details of matters decided/resolved through circulation. The 
minutes may be forwarded in the form of hard copies, duly certified by the company secretary 
along with soft copies on a floppy diskette/compact disk.2 
 
9. The Board should carry out its responsibilities in such a way that the external auditors and 
supervisors can see and form judgment on the quality of Board’s work and its contributions 
through proper and detailed minutes of the deliberations held and decisions taken during the Board 
meetings.  
 
10. To share the load of activities, the Board may form specialized committees with well-defined 
objectives, authorities and tenure. These committees, comprising of at least one non-executive 
Board member, shall oversee areas like Audit, Risk Management, Credit, and Recruitment, 
Remuneration & Nomination. The Chairman of the Board shall not be member of the 
aforementioned committees. Further, the Audit Committee of the Board shall invariably be 
                                                            
1   Introduced vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 13 of 2011 dated May 28, 2011. 
2   Introduced vide BPRD Circular No. 02 of 2013 dated March 19, 2013. 
21 
 
chaired by an Independent Director.  These committees of the Board should neither indulge in 
day-to-day affairs/operations of the bank nor enjoy any credit approval authority for 
transaction/limits. These committees should apprise the Board of their activities and 
achievements on regular basis.1  
 
11. The Board should ensure that it receives management letter from the external auditors without 
delay. It should also be ensured that appropriate action is taken in consultation with the Audit 
Committee of the Board to deal with control or other weaknesses identified in the 
management letter. A copy of that letter should be submitted to the State Bank of Pakistan so 
that it can monitor follow-up actions.  
 
12. Whenever the Board of Directors/relevant appointing/removing authority of a bank/DFI 
considers to remove its President/Chief Executive Officer/Country Head/Country Manager 
before the expiration of his/her term of office through the defined statutory process, State Bank of 
Pakistan (SBP) must invariably be informed at least two months ahead of the implementation of 
such decision along-with the reasons for the same.2  
 
13. The President/CEO/Country Head/Country Manager, wherever, decides to tender resignation 
before completion of his/her term of office, he/she must inform SBP at least two months before 
tendering resignation.  
 
14. The Chairman of the Board of Directors/relevant removing authority of bank/DFI would be 
responsible for submission of the requisite information to SBP.  
 
15. Acting CEO appointed pursuant to resignation/removal of the CEO is invariably required to meet 
the FPT Criteria prescribed for the CEO and the Banks/DFIs shall duly submit FPT documents of 
such person to SBP before assumption of charge. In case of temporary vacation (not exceeding 
one month) of the office of CEO, the Banks/DFIs shall ensure to entrust charge of the office of 
CEO to such an officer who meets the FPT Criteria prescribed for Key Executives and whose 
FPT documents have already been submitted to SBP.3  
 
16. The banks incorporated in Pakistan having foreign participation/equity can hold board meetings 
abroad in following manner in a calendar year4: 
17.  
17. The bank concerned will, however, only inform SBP in writing before its Board Meeting abroad in 
accordance with the above instructions. The banks/DFIs are advised to hold BoDs meetings at the 
place of residence of foreign directors. Further, those having no foreign shareholding and 
directorship shall not be allowed BoDs meetings abroad. They are also encouraged to make 
maximum use of video conferencing facilities for Board Meetings. 
C. MANAGEMENT:  
No member of the Board of Directors of a bank/DFI holding 5% or more of the paid-up capital of the 
bank/DFI either individually or in concert with family members or concerns /companies  in  which  
                                                            
1   Amended vide BPRD Circular No. 9 of 2015 dated May 06, 2015.  
2   Para 12, 13, & 14 amended vide BPRD Circular No. 9 of 2008 dated August 19, 2008 
3   Inserted vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 12 of 2011 dated May 13, 2011 
4   Revised vide BPRD Circular No. 11 of 2013 dated May  06, 2013 
i. Banks having more than 51% foreign shareholding and
minimum two directors residing abroad. 
Maximum of 4 Board Meetings.
ii. Banks having more than 40% foreign shareholding and
minimum one director residing abroad. 
3 Board Meetings. 
iii. Banks having upto 40% foreign shareholding and minimum
one director residing abroad. 
1 Board Meeting. 
22 
 
he/she  has  the  controlling  interest,  shall  be appointed in the bank  /DFI in any capacity 
except as Chief Executive of the bank/DFI. Further, maximum two members of Board of 
Directors of a bank/DFI including its CEO can be the Executive Directors.  
 
2.  The banks/DFIs during a calendar year may pay a reasonable and appropriate remuneration 
for attending the Board or its committee(s) meeting(s), to their non-executive directors and 
chairman. The scale of remuneration to be paid to the non-executive directors and chairman for 
attending the Board and/or committee meetings shall be approved by the shareholders on a pre 
or post facto basis in the Annual General Meeting (AGM). However, no such remuneration 
shall be paid to the executive directors except usual TA/DA as per bank’s/DFI’s standard rules 
and regulations. No consultancy or allied work will be awarded to the directors or to the 
firms/institutions/companies etc. in which they hold substantial interest. Further, the 
administrative expenses pertaining to the office, staff and security allocated to the Chairman of 
the Board should be determined rationally.1 
  
3.   Chairman of the Board of Directors may, if deemed necessary, appoint one advisor to advise 
and facilitate him in discharge of his duties/responsibilities. The appointment of such an advisor will 
be subject to the following conditions:  
a) The advisor must possess the required technical experience relating to banking and finance at 
a senior level to enable him /her to render a professional advice to the Board.  
b) The terms of reference of the advisor shall be approved by the Board.  
c) A reasonable remuneration may be paid to the advisor with the approval of the Board of 
Directors.  
d) The  advisor  may  attend  the  meetings  of  Board  of  Directors  and  Board Committees 
in which his/her participation is required but he/she will not be a member of the Board and/or 
its committees.  
e) The advisor shall be required to sign an appropriate confidentiality agreement to ensure 
confidentiality of documents/information that may come to his/her knowledge, before 
assuming any such role.2 
 
D. COMPLIANCE OFFICER:  
Banks/DFIs shall put in place a Compliance Program to ensure that all relevant laws are complied 
with, in letter and spirit, and, thus, minimize legal and regulatory risks.  For this purpose, the 
Board of Directors, or Country Manager in case of foreign banks, shall appoint/designate a 
suitably qualified and experienced person as Compliance Officer on a countrywide basis, who 
may be assisted by other Compliance Officers down the line. The Head of Compliance will report 
directly to the President/Chief Executive Officer of the bank/DFI. The Compliance Officers will 
primarily be responsible for banks/DFI’s effective compliance relating to:  
(a)   SBP Prudential Regulations.  
(b)   Relevant provisions of existing laws and regulations.  
(c)   Guidelines for KYC.  
(d)   Anti money laundering laws and regulations.  
(e)   Timely submission of accurate data/returns to regulator and other agencies.  
(f)   Monitor and report suspicious transactions to President/Chief Executive  
Officer of the bank/DFI 
and other related agencies.  
2. Banks/DFIs are, however, free to add other areas of compliance under the responsibilities of 
Compliance Officer and consider setting up a compliance committee under him, as they deem fit to 
protect the interest of the institution.  
3. The  Compliance  Officers  will (i) serve  as  a  contact  point  between President/Chief  
Executive  Officer  and  senior  management,  with  regard  to functioning  of  the  compliance  
program  (ii)  provide  assistance  in  this  area  to branches and other departments of the bank/DFI, 
and  (iii) act as liaison with State Bank of Pakistan concerning the issues related to compliance.’  
4. Banks/DFIs are, therefore, advised to put in place, in writing, a complete program of 
compliance down the line under the supervision of a Compliance Officer.  
 
 
                                                            
1   Amended vide BPRD Circular No. 9 of 2015 dated May 06, 2015 
2   Amended vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 12 of 2009 dated April 24, 2009 
23 
 
E. FITNESS AND PROPRIETY OF KEY EXECUTIVES:  
Banks/DFIs shall strictly follow the guidelines contained in the ‘Fit and Proper Test’ (FPT) during the 
course of appointment of key executives. 
 
2. The banks/DFIs should also develop and implement appropriate screening procedures  to  ensure  
high  standards  and  integrity  at  the  time  of  hiring  all employees, whether contractual or 
permanent.  
 
3. In case it is found at subsequent stage/during the course of inspection that guidelines of FPT 
have not been followed or the incumbent is not a fit and proper person, strict punitive action will be 
taken under the relevant provisions of Banking Companies Ordinance 1962, in addition to directing 
the banks/DFIs to dispense with the services of concerned officer if recruited afresh; and in case 
of existing employee, the same to be transferred from the post immediately.  
                                 
REGULATION G-2  
DEALING WITH DIRECTORS, MAJOR SHARE-HOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE 
BANKS/DFIs  
 
Banks/DFIs shall not enter into leasing, renting and sale/purchase of any kind with their directors, 
officers, employees or such persons who either individually or in concert with family members 
beneficially own 5% or more of the equity of the bank/DFI.  This restriction does not apply in case 
of purchase of vehicles, laptops, mobile phone devices and iPads1 by the paid directors, officers or 
employees of the banks/DFIs which remained in their own use, provided such sale is covered under 
the employees service rules duly approved by the Board of Directors of the banks/DFIs and is 
effected by the banks/DFIs at least at book value at the date of such transaction.  
 
2.  
Banks/DFIs shall not: 
a)  take unsecured exposure on, or take exposure against the guarantee of: 
i)   any of their directors; 
ii)  any of the family members of any of their directors; 
iii) any firm or private company in which the bank/DFI or any of the   persons  referred to in (i) or 
(ii) are interested as director, proprietor or partner; or  
iv) any public limited company in which the bank/DFI or any of the persons as aforesaid are 
substantially interested; and  
v) their Chief Executive and shareholders holding 5% or more of the share capital of the 
bank/DFI, including their spouses, parents, and children or to firms and companies in which 
they are interested as partners, directors or shareholders holding 5% or more of the share 
capital of that concern.  
 
b)  take any exposure on any of their directors or to individuals, firms or companies  in which they or 
any of their directors,  either directly in the borrowing entity or in any of its group companies, hold 
key management positions, or are interested  
as partner, director or guarantor, as the case may be,   
their Chief Executives and shareholders holding 5% or more of the share capital of the bank/DFI, 
including their spouses, parents, and children or to firms and companies in which they are interested 
as partners, directors or shareholders holding 5% or more of the share capital of that concern, 
without the approval of the majority of the directors of that bank/DFI excluding the director 
concerned. The facilities to the persons mentioned above shall be extended at market terms and 
conditions and be dealt with at arm length basis.  
 
REGULATION G-3  
CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONATIONS FOR CHARITABLE, SOCIAL, EDUCATIONAL AND 
PUBLIC WELFARE PURPOSES  
 
Banks/DFIs shall strictly observe the following rules in the matter of making any 
donation/contribution for charitable, social, educational or public welfare purposes: 
i) 
The total donations/contributions made by the bank/DFI during the year shall not exceed such 
amount as approved by their Board of Directors. It is expected that banks/DFIs making these 
                                                            
1 Introduced vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 32 of  2013 dated December 17, 2013 
24 
 
donations/contributions would have already met provisioning and capital adequacy requirements.  
ii) The banks/DFIs shall develop policy/guidelines duly approved by the Board of Directors for 
making donations/contributions. 
 
2.     All donations or contributions to be made during the year must be specifically approved by the 
Board of Directors on pre or post facto basis as convenient.  
 
3.    Banks/DFIs are further directed to expressly disclose in their annual audited financial 
statements the total donation/contribution made during the year along with names of donees, to 
whom total donations/ contributions during the year were made in excess of Rs 100,000/. In the 
case of donations where any director or his family members have interest in the donee, the names of 
such directors, their interest in the donee and the names and addresses of all donees, shall also be 
given.  
 
REGULATION G-4  
CREDIT RATING  
 
With a view to safeguard the interest of prospective investors, depositors and creditors, it shall 
be mandatory for all banks/DFIs to have themselves credit rated by a credit rating agency on the 
approved panel of the State Bank of Pakistan.  
2.  
Foreign banks which are credit rated by M/s. Standard & Poor, Moody’s Fitch-Ibca and 
Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCRA) are given a minimum rating of A3/A- and above shall be 
exempt from the application of this requirement. All other foreign banks have to go through credit 
rating process in Pakistan.  
3.  
The credit rating will be an ongoing process i.e. credit rating should be updated on a 
continuous basis from year to year, within six months from the date of close  of  each  financial  year  
and  the  rating report  complete  in  all  respects  be submitted to the State Bank of Pakistan and 
made public within a period of seven days of the notification of rating by the credit rating agency. 
Further, the banks/DFIs will disclose their credit rating prominently in their published annual and 
quarterly financial statements.  
 
REGULATION O-1 
UNDERTAKING OF CASH PAYMENTS OUTSIDE THE BANK’S AUTHORIZED PLACE OF 
BUSINESS  
 
Banks shall not undertake any business of cash payments, other than the authorized place of 
business, except through the installation of Automated Teller Machine (ATM). Banks desirous of 
providing the facility of withdrawal through Authorized Merchant Establishments at various Points of 
Sale (POS) may do so upto a maximum cash limit of Rs 10,000/- For this purpose, adequate and 
suitable security measures should be put in place for cash feeding and safety of the Automated Teller 
Machines. 
 
2. Branchless banking receipts/payments are allowed in accordance with branchless banking 
regulations.  
 
3. Banks may do collection and payment of cash for their prime customers through cash carrying 
companies registered with concerned Government department. This facility should, however, be 
provided through designated branches of the banks and after the banks have devised procedures 
including necessary security measures.  
 
REGULATION O-2  
WINDOW DRESSING  
 
Banks/DFIs shall refrain from  adopting any measures or  practices whereby they would either 
artificially or temporarily show an ostensibly different position of bank’s/DFI’s accounts as given in 
their  financial  statements.  Particular  care  shall  be  taken  in  showing their  deposits,  MCR, non-
performing loans/assets, provisioning, profit,  inter-branch  and inter-bank accounts, or  any other 
method to artificially inflate balance sheet or show improved profitability.  
 
25 
 
REGULATION O-3  
RECONCILIATION OF INTER-BRANCH ACCOUNTS  
AND SETTLEMENT OF SUSPENSE ACCOUNT ENTRIES  
 
All entries outstanding in the Inter-Branch Accounts (by whatever name called)    and/or Suspense 
Account must be reconciled/cleared and taken to the proper head of account within a maximum 
period of 30 days from the date the entry is made in the above-named accounts.  
 
2. Entries made on account of tax at source, advance tax paid, tax recoverable, advance expense on 
new branches, advance rent paid, legal expenses, mark-up/service charge recoverable, Qarze Hasna 
for marriage, and forward cover fee, shall not be classified as Suspense Account and may be recorded 
in  their  respective  head  of  account  under  other  assets  and  the  above instructions shall  not  be 
applicable to these items . Further, outstanding amount of the premium on Crop Loan Insurance 
Scheme (CLIS) receivable from Government of Pakistan (GoP) shall also be classified in other assets. 
The outstanding amount shall, however, be reconciled/cleared immediately on reimbursement of 
premium amount from the GoP. Besides, entries relating to frauds and forgeries, cash theft and looted, 
payments against equity, scrips/debt instruments and contributory payments of capital nature to be 
capitalized at a later stage shall also be excluded from the purview of the said regulation. The 
exclusion of entries relating to frauds and forgeries, cash theft and looted will, however, be subject to 
the condition that the same are cleared immediately on receipt of insurance claims.  
 
3. Banks/DFIs shall institute an effective internal control system for the operations of Inter-Branch 
and Suspense Accounts, which ensures reconciliation/clearing of the entries in shortest possible time 
and also clearly fixes the responsibilities on the official(s) for neglecting the timely reconciliation and 
clearance.  
 
REGULATION O-4  
MAINTENANCE OF ASSETS IN PAKISTAN  
 
Every bank/DFI shall maintain in Pakistan not less than 80% of the assets created by it against such 
time and demand liabilities as specified in Part-A of Form X (prescribed under Rule 17 of the 
Banking Companies Rules, 1963). Accordingly, assets held abroad by any bank/DFI shall not, at any 
point in time, exceed 20% of its time and demand liabilities specified in the said Form X. All other 
assets financed from sources other than time and demand liabilities specified in the said Form X shall 
be held within Pakistan.  
 
REGULATION O-5  
FOREIGN CURRENCY DEPOSITS UNDER FE 25-1998  
 
Banks shall not invest FE 25 deposits in foreign currency/local currency denominated instruments 
below investment grade. Neither, shall they invest/place such deposits in fund management schemes 
of other banks/DFIs/NBFCs whether in Pakistan or abroad.  
2. Banks shall be required to maintain the prescribed ratio of Cash Reserve/Special Cash Reserve 
against FE 25 deposits in US Dollars.  
3. Placement of funds of FE-25 deposits with any one bank/financial institution, whether in Pakistan 
or abroad, shall be subject to the following conditions:  
a) The investing bank shall comply with Regulation R-1 (Annexure-1 Para G), which mentions 
different weightages according to credit ratings of financial institutions.  
b) The investing bank will not place in a single institution an amount exceeding 25% of the total 
investable funds, available with the investing bank, under the FE-25 Deposit Scheme.  
The conditions above shall, however, not be applicable to placement of funds by the bank with its 
own branches overseas. Furthermore, compliance with all other relevant Prudential Regulations shall 
also be ensured.  
4. Banks shall be free to decide the rate of return on deposits mobilized under FE-25.  
5. Banks shall be free to use such deposits for their trade-related activities provided the exchange risks 
are adequately covered and a square position is maintained.  
6. Foreign currency deposits mobilized under FE 25 scheme, after netting-off the deposits utilized to 
finance trade related activities such as financing against Import and Export documents, should not at 
any point exceed twenty percent of the local currency deposits of the banks at the close of business on 
26 
 
the last working day of the preceding quarter. Banks/DFIs may also exclude FE-25 Deposits in the 
form of the Foreign Direct Investment and funds received for social and economic uplift through 
international donor agencies/welfare organizations from the calculation of above limit of 20%. This 
will, however, be subject to the condition that the banks/DFIs will obtain an undertaking from the 
Account Holder that such funds are remitted from abroad and would be used for poverty alleviation 
and socio-economic uplift. The genuineness of all such exclusions will be verified by the SBP 
Inspectors during the subsequent inspections.  
7. Banks will report the amount of FE 25 deposits and their utilization in the Weekly Statement of 
Position through reporting chart of account DWH Portal as required by the SBP.  
 
******************** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
 
ANNEXURE-I 
GUIDELINES REGARDING LIMIT ON EXPOSURE  
TO A SINGLE OBLIGOR UNDER REGULATION R-1 
 
1. In arriving at exposure under Regulation R-1: 
 
A) 100% of the deposits placed with lending bank/DFI, under perfected lien and in the same currency, 
as that of the loan, shall be deducted. 
 
B) 90% of the following shall be deducted; 
i) deposits placed with the lending bank/DFI, under perfected lien, in a currency other than that of the 
loan; 
ii) deposits with another bank/DFI under perfected lien; 
iii) 
encashment value of Federal Investment Bonds, Pakistan Investment Bonds, Treasury Bills and 
National Saving Scheme securities, lodged by the borrower as collateral; and 
iv) 
Pak. Rupee equivalent of face value of Special US Dollar Bonds converted at inter-bank rate, 
lodged by the borrower as collateral. 
 
C) 85% of the unconditional financial guarantees accepted as collateral and payable on demand by 
banks/DFIs, rated at least ‘A’ or equivalent by a recognized rating agency) shall be deducted. Similar 
weightage to guarantees issued by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), Commonwealth 
Development Corporation (CDC) Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG), 
Nederlandse Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden  N.V (FMO) and Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) shall also apply. 
 
D) 50% of listed Term Finance Certificates held as security with duly marked lien shall be deducted. 
The TFCs to qualify for this purpose should have been rated at least ‘A’ or equivalent by a credit 
rating agency on the approved panel of State Bank of Pakistan. 
 
E) Weightage of 10% shall be given to pre-shipment/post-shipment credit provided to finance exports 
of goods covered by letter of credit/firm contracts including financing provided from the bank’s 
/DFI’s own sources. 
 
F) Weightage of 50% shall be given to; 
i) documentary credits (except Standby Letter of Credits where 100% exposure would be counted) 
opened by banks/DFIs; 
ii) guarantees/bonds other than financial guarantees;  
iii) 
underwriting commitments. 
 
G) The following different weightages will be applicable to exposure taken against commercial 
banks/DFIs in respect of placements; 
i) 
25% weightage on exposure to banks/DFIs with ‘AAA’ rating. 
ii) 50% weightage on exposure to banks/DFIs rated ‘A' and AA. 
iii) 100% weightage on exposure to banks /DFIs rated below ‘A’. 
 
The banks/DFIs shall ensure that the overall limit for each financial institution in respect of inter-
bank placements is invariably approved by their Board of Directors. 
 
2. For the purpose of the Regulation R-1, exposure shall not include the following: 
 
a.) Loans and advances (including bills purchased and discounted) given to the Federal Government or 
any of their agencies under the commodity operations program of the Federal Government, or 
guaranteed by the Federal Government. 
 
b.) 
Obligations under letters of credit and letters of guarantee to the extent of cash margin held by the 
bank/DFI. 
 
28 
 
c.) Letters of credit, which do not create any obligation on the part of the bank/DFI (no liability L/C) to 
make payments on account of imports. 
 
d.) 
Letters of credit opened on behalf of Federal Government where payment is guaranteed by State 
Bank of Pakistan/Federal Government. 
 
 
 
e.) Facilities provided to commercial banks/DFIs through REPO transactions with underlying SLR 
eligible securities. 
f.) Letters of credit established for the import of plant and machinery subject to the condition that 
financial close has been done in case of such LCs. 
 
g.) 
Bills discounted/purchased from the borrower, drawn against the L/Cs of banks/DFIs meeting the 
following criteria. 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Maturity of the bill(s) 
discounted/purchased 
Aggregate amount of 
bill(s) purchased/ 
discounted on account of 
one person 
Minimum rating of the L/C 
issuing and accepting banks/DFIs 
assigned by Recognized Rating 
Agencies 
a) 
 Short term (not more 
than 1 year) 
 Up to US$ 250,000 
 No restriction 
b) 
 Short term (not more 
than 1 year) 
 More than US$ 250,000 
 At least “BBB” and above 
c) 
 Long term (more than 1 
year) 
-Any- 
 At least “A” and above 
 
3. For the purpose of Regulation R-1, net open exposure shall be used in the calculation on account of 
derivative transactions as allowed under Financial Derivatives Business Regulations issued vide BSD 
Circular No. 17 dated November 26, 2004. 
 
For the purpose of Regulation R-1, reserve shall also include revaluation reserves on account of fixed 
assets of the bank/DFI to the extent of 50% of their value. However, for this purpose assets must be 
prudently valued by valuators on the panel of Pakistan Bank Association (PBA), fully taking into 
account the possibility of price fluctuations and forced sale value. Revaluation reserves reflecting the 
difference between the book value and the market value will be eligible up to 50%. 
 
 
29 
 
                                      ANNEXURE II 
 
BORROWER’S BASIC FACT SHEET- FOR CORPORATE 
PRESCRIBED UNDER REGULATION R-3 
 
Date of Request._____________ 
(TO BE COMPLETED IN CAPITAL LETTERS OR TYPEWRITTEN) 
BORROWER’S PROFILE: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. NATURE OF BUSINESS: 
 
Industrial 
Commercial 
Agricultural 
Services 
Any other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. DETAILS OF DIRECTORS/OWNERS/PARTNERS: 
 
 
Name 
Address 
 
 
Phone # 
Fax #
E-mail Address
Office 
Res. 
 
 
Computerized National Identity Card  # 
National Tax  # 
Sales Tax # 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Import Registration 
# 
Export 
Registration # 
Date of 
Establishment 
Date of opening of A/c. 
 
 
 
 
Name 
Address 
 
 
Phone # 
Fax # 
E-mail Address 
Office 
Res. 
 
 
Computerized National Identity Card  # 
National Tax  # 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share-holding 
Amount 
%  of Share-holding 
 
 
 
30 
 
4. CORPORATE STATUS: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. MANAGEMENT: 
 
A) EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS/PARTNERS: 
Name 
Address 
CNIC # 
Phone # 
1. 
 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
 
 
B) NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS/PARTNERS: 
Name 
Address 
CNIC # 
Phone # 
1. 
 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
 
 
 
6. REQUESTED LIMITS: 
 
 
Amount 
Tenor 
Fund Based 
 
 
Non-Fund Based 
 
 
 
7. BUSINESS HANDLED/EFFECTED WITH ALL FINANCIAL 
    INSTITUTIONS DURING THE LAST ACCOUNTING YEAR: 
 
Imports 
Exports 
Remittances effected (if any) 
 
 
 
 
8. EXISTING LIMITS AND STATUS: 
 
 
 
Amount 
 
Expiry 
Date 
Status 
Regular 
Amount Overdue(if any) 
Fund Based 
 
 
 
 
Non-Fund 
Based 
 
 
 
 
 
9. ANY WRITE-OFF, RESCHEDULING/ RESTRUCTURING  
    AVAILED DURING THE LAST THREE YEARS: 
Sole 
Proprietorship 
Partnership 
Public/Private Limited Company 
 
 
 
31 
 
 
 
 
Name of 
Financial 
Institution 
Amount during 
1st Year 
Amount during  
2nd Year 
Amount during 
3rd Year 
Write-
off 
Rescheduled/ 
Restructured
Write-
off 
Rescheduled/ 
Restructured
Write-
off 
Rescheduled/ 
Restructured 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
 DETAILS OF CLEAN FACILITIES CURRENTLY AVAILED: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. 
 DETAILS OF PRIME SECURITIES MORTGAGED/ PLEDGED: 
 
A) AGAINST EXISTING FACILITIES: 
Name of Financial 
Institution 
Nature of 
Security 
Total 
Amount 
Rank of Charge 
Net Realizable Value 
1. 
 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
 
 
B) AGAINST REQUESTED/ FRESH/ ADDITIONAL FACILITIES: 
Name of Financial 
Institution 
Nature of Security 
Total Amount 
Net Realizable 
Value 
1.  
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
 
12.   DETAILS OF SECONDARY COLLATERAL MORTGAGED/ PLEDGED: 
A) AGAINST EXISTING FACILITIES: 
Name of Financial 
Institution 
Nature of 
Security 
Total 
Amount 
Rank of Charge 
Net Realizable Value 
1.  
 
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
 
B) AGAINST REQUESTED/ FRESH/ ADDITIONAL FACILITIES: 
Name of Financial 
Institution 
Nature of Security 
Total Amount 
Net Realizable Value 
1.  
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
 
13.   CREDIT RATING (WHERE APPLICABLE): 
Name of Rating Agency 
Rating 
 
 
 
14.   DETAILS OF ASSOCIATED CONCERNS 
        (AS DEFINED IN COMPANIES ORDINANCE, 1984): 
 Name of 
Concern 
Name of 
Directors 
Share-holding 
% of Total Share Capital  
 
 
 
 
 
Name of Financial 
Institution 
Nature of  Facility 
Total Limit  
Amount 
Outstanding 
1.  
 
 
 
2.  
 
 
 
32 
 
15.   FACILITIES TO ASSOCIATED CONCERNS BY THE CONCERNED FI: 
Name of 
Concern 
Nature & 
Amount of 
Limit 
Outstanding 
 as on-------- 
 Nature & 
Value of 
Securities 
Overdues 
Defaults 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. DETAILS OF PERSONAL GUARANTEES PROVIDED BY THE 
      DIRECTORS/PARTNERS ETC. TO FIs TO SECURE CREDIT: 
Names of the 
Guarantors 
Institutions/persons 
to whom Guarantee 
given 
Amount 
of 
Guarantee
Validity 
Period 
NIC # 
NTN 
Net-worth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.   DIVIDEND DECLARED (AMOUNT) DURING THE LAST THREE YEARS: 
During 1st Year 
During 2nd Year 
During 3rd Year 
 
 
 
 
18.   SHARE PRICES OF THE BORROWING ENTITY: 
Listed Company  
Break-up Value of the Shares 
in case of Private Limited Company 
Current Price 
Preceding 12 Months 
Average 
 
 
 
 
19.   NET-WORTH (PARTICULARS OF ASSETS OWNED IN THEIR 
        OWN NAMES BY THE DIRECTORS/PARTNERS/PROPRIETORS): 
Owner’s Name 
Particulars of 
Assets 
Market value 
Particulars of Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
20.   DETAILS OF ALL OVERDUES (IF OVER 90 DAYS): 
Name of Financial Institution 
Amount 
 
 
 
21. Details of payment schedule if term loan sought. 
22. Latest Audited Financial Statements as per requirements of Regulation R-3 to be 
submitted with the LAF (Loan Application Form). 
23. Memorandum and Articles of Association, By-laws etc. to be submitted by the borrower 
along with the request. 
24. I/We do hereby authorise the bank/DFI to share information about my pledged stock with 
other banks/DFIs to monitor the position as per SBP Prudential Regulations. 
I certify and undertake that the information furnished above is true to the best of my 
knowledge. 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S/ 
BORROWER’S 
SIGNATURE & STAMP 
COUNTER SIGNED BY: 
AUTHORISED SIGNATURE 
& STAMP 
(BANK/DFI OFFICIAL) 
 
 
 
33 
 
 
ANNEXURE-III  
 
CRITERIA FOR PREFERENCE SHARES FOR INCLUSION IN INVESTMENT IN EQUITIES  
 
a)  Redemption of such preference shares is at the option of the issuer.  
b)  In case the issuer has an option to redeem the preference shares, as per agreed terms and conditions, 
the 
redemption will be made through a sinking fund created out of the profits of the company.  
c)  The terms and conditions of such shares does not give rise to a contractual obligation on the part of the 
issuer to deliver another financial asset or exchange another financial instrument under conditions that are or 
can be potentially unfavorable to the issuer. However, an option to convert preference shares into common 
shares can be the feature of the preference shares.  
d)  The terms and conditions of the preference shares are not such as to compel the issuer economically, 
financially or otherwise to redeem the shares.  
e)  Payment and distribution of dividend to the holders of preferred shares, whether cumulative or non-
cumulative, is at the discretion of the issuer.  
 
 
 
 
34 
 
 
ANNEXURE-IV  
CASES ELIGIBLE FOR RELAXATION UNDER REGULATION R-7  
 
The following cases will be eligible for relaxation under regulation R-7: 
  
1. For bid bonds issued on behalf of local consultancy firms/ contractors of goods and services 
bidding for international contracts/Tenders where the consultancy fees and other payments are to be 
received in foreign exchange.  
 
2. For issue of performance bonds on behalf of local construction companies/ contractors of goods 
and services bidding for international tenders.   Provided that the liability of the bank/DFI will be on 
reducing balance basis after taking into account progressive billing certified by the beneficiary/project 
owner and payment received against these bills. 
  
3. For issue of guarantees on behalf of local construction companies/ contractors of goods and 
services bidding for international tenders in respect of mobilization advance.  
a)  Guarantees issued should contain clause that the mobilization advance and other proceeds under the 
contract shall be routed by the beneficiary/project owner through the account of the contractors 
maintained with the guaranteeing bank/DFI.  
b)  At the time of issuing such guarantee the construction company/contractor shall sign an 
agreement with the bank/DFI that cash proceeds out of mobilization advance will be released as 
per satisfaction of the bank/DFI about the progress of the contract.  
 
4. While issuing guarantees to the exporters of cotton in terms of F.E. Circular No.77 dated 
December 4, 1988, banks/DFIs may settle the type and quantum of security with their customers. 
 
5.  Issue of performance bonds/bid bonds and guarantees issued for mobilization advances on behalf of 
the manufacturers of engineering goods. The term  ‘engineering goods’ shall have the same 
meanings as are given to locally manufactured machinery in State Bank of Pakistan scheme for 
financing locally manufactured machinery. Such condition may, however, not be necessary in case of 
guarantees issued by the International Banks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
 
ANNEXURE-V  
GUIDELINES IN THE MATTER OF CLASSIFICATION 
AND PROVISIONING FOR ASSETS (REGULATION R-8) 
All Financing Facilities (including Short, Medium and Long Term) 
 
CLASSIFICATION DETERMINANT
TREATMENT OF 
INCOME 
PROVISIONS TO 
 BE MADE 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
 
 
 
 
1. Substandard. 
Where mark-up/ 
interest 
or 
principal 
is 
overdue by 90 
days 
or 
more 
from the due date. 
 
Unrealized 
mark-up 
/interest to be kept in 
Memorandum 
Account 
and not to be credited to 
Income Account except 
when realized in cash. 
Unrealized 
mark 
up/interest already taken 
to income account to be 
reversed 
and 
kept 
in 
Memorandum Account. 
Provision of 25% of the difference 
resulting 
from 
the 
outstanding 
balance of principal less the amount 
of liquid assets realizable without 
recourse to a Court of Law and 
Forced 
Sale 
Value 
(FSV) 
of 
pledged stocks, plant & machinery 
under 
charge, 
and 
mortgaged 
residential, commercial & industrial 
properties (land & building only) to 
the extent allowed in Para 2 of the 
Regulation R-8 (see Note 2 below) 
 
2. Doubtful. 
Where mark-up/ 
interest 
or 
principal 
is 
overdue by 180 
days 
or 
more 
from the due date. 
 
As above. 
 
 
Provision of 50% of the difference 
resulting 
from 
the 
outstanding 
balance of principal less the amount 
of liquid assets realizable without 
recourse to a Court of Law and FSV 
of 
pledged 
stocks, 
plant 
& 
machinery 
under 
charge, 
and 
mortgaged residential, commercial 
& industrial properties (land & 
building only) to the extent allowed 
in Para 2 of the Regulation R-8 (see 
Note 2 below).  
3. Loss. 
(a)  Where mark-
up/ 
interest 
or 
principal 
is 
overdue by one 
year or more from 
the due date 
 
 
 
(b)   Where Trade 
Bills 
(Import/Export or 
Inland Bills) are 
not paid/adjusted 
within 180 days 
As above 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As above. 
 
 
Provision of 100% of the difference 
resulting 
from 
the 
outstanding 
balance of principal less the amount 
of liquid assets realizable without 
recourse to a Court of Law and FSV 
of 
pledged 
stocks, 
plant 
& 
machinery 
under 
charge, 
and 
mortgaged residential, commercial 
& industrial properties (land & 
building only) to the extent allowed 
in Para 2 of the Regulation R-8 (see 
Note 2 below).  
 
As above. 
36 
 
of the due date. 
Notes : 
1) Classified loans/advances that have been guaranteed by the Government would not require provisioning, 
however, mark up/interest on such accounts to be taken to Memorandum Account instead of Income Account. 
2) FSV shall be determined in accordance with the guidelines contained in Annexure-VI to these Regulations. 
 
 
37 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE-VI  
 
Uniform Criteria for Determining the Value of Pledged Stock, Plant & Machinery under  
 
Charge and Mortgaged Properties (Prudential Regulation R-8) 
 
Only liquid assets, pledged stock, plant & machinery under charge, and property having registered or 
equitable mortgage shall be considered for taking benefit for provisioning, provided no NOC for 
creating further charge to another bank / DFI / NBFC has been issued by the bank/DFI. The aforesaid 
assets having pari-passu charge shall be considered on proportionate basis of outstanding amount.  
 
2. Hypothecated assets, excluding plant & machinery under charge, shall not be considered for taking the 
FSV benefit for provisioning requirement. Similarly, all assets with second charge and floating charge 
shall not be considered for taking the FSV benefit for provisioning requirement.  
 
3. Valuations shall be carried out by an independent professional evaluator who should be listed on the 
panel of evaluators maintained by the Pakistan Banks Association (PBA). The evaluator while 
assigning any values to the pledged stock, plant & machinery under charge, and mortgaged property, shall  
take into  account all  relevant  factors affecting the  salability of  such  assets including any difficulty  
in  obtaining their possession, their location & condition, and the prevailing economic conditions in 
the relevant sector, business or industry. The values of pledged stock, plant & machinery under charge, and 
mortgaged property so determined by the evaluators must represent a reasonably good estimate of the 
amount that could currently be obtained by selling such assets in a forced / distressed sale condition. 
The evaluators should also mention in their report the assumptions made, the calculations / formulae / 
basis used and the method adopted in determination of the values i.e. the Market Value and Forced Sale 
Value (FSV).  
 
4. The valuation process will include conducting a “Full-scope Valuation” of the assets in the first year 
and then followed by “Desktop Valuations” in the second and third year. Full-scope Valuation shall be 
valid for three years from the date of last Full-scope Valuation.  
 
5. The following may be noted in respect of the Desktop and Full-scope Valuations:  
  Desktop Valuation is defined as “an Interim Brief Review of Full-scope Valuation, so that any 
significant change in the factors, on which the Full-scope Valuation was based, is accounted for and 
brought to the notice of the lending bank/DFI”.  
   In case the loan amount exceeds Rs 100 million, the Desktop Valuation will be done by the same 
evaluator, who had conducted the Full-scope Valuation (the evaluator should be on the panel of the 
PBA) whereas for loans below this threshold, the Desktop Valuation may be done by the  banks/DFIs  
themselves  or  by  the  approved  evaluators.  For  conducting  Desktop Valuation,  the  evaluator  will  
pay  a  short  visit  to  the  borrower’s  site.  The  bank’s/DFI’s responsibility in this respect will be to 
ensure that the evaluator is contacted for conducting Desktop Valuation and is provided all necessary 
information which is materially important for the interim review.  
  The Desktop Valuation shall be used for determining any additional provisioning requirement only and 
will not be applied for reducing the provisioning requirement assessed on the basis of Full-scope Valuation.  
  In cases where the evaluators are not allowed by the borrowers to enter in their premises, the Full-
scope Valuation, conducted as such, will not be accepted for provisioning benefit.  
 
6. State Bank of Pakistan may check the valuations of the assets under mortgage/charge, through an 
independent  evaluator,  on  random  basis,  to  verify  the  reasonableness  of  the  valuations.  The 
unjustified differences in the valuations of banks/DFIs and State Bank of Pakistan shall render the 
concerned bank/DFI and evaluator to penal actions including, inter alia, withdrawal of FSV benefit.  
 
7. Various categories of assets to be considered for valuation would be as under (no other assets shall be 
taken into consideration):  
a) Liquid Assets:  
38 
 
 
 
 
Valuation of Liquid Assets shall be determined by the bank / DFI itself and verified by the external 
auditors. However, in the case of pledged shares of listed companies, values should be taken at market value 
as per active list of Stock Exchange(s) on the balance sheet date. Moreover, valuation of shares pledged 
against loans/advances shall be considered only if such shares are in dematerialized form in the Central 
Depository Company of Pakistan (CDC), otherwise these will not be admissible for deduction as 
liquid assets while determining required provisions.  
b) Mortgaged Property and Plant & Machinery under Charge:  
Valuation of residential, commercial & industrial property (land and building only) and plant & 
machinery would be accepted as determined by evaluators in accordance with the criteria given 
above.  
c) Pledged Stocks:  
In case of pledged stocks of perishable and non-perishable goods, forced sale value should be 
provided by evaluators, and such valuation should not be more than six months old, at each balance sheet 
date. The goods should be perfectly pledged, the operation of the godown(s) or warehouse(s) should be in 
the control of the bank/DFI and regular valid insurance and other documents should be available.  In case 
of perishable goods, the  evaluator  should also give the approximate date of complete erosion of value.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 
 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNEXURES 
 
ANNEXURE  A 
ASSESSMENT OF FITNESS AND PROPRIETY 
 
1. INTEGRITY, HONESTY AND REPUTATION 
 
i) 
Has not been convicted/involved in any fraud/forgery, financial 
crime etc, in Pakistan or elsewhere, or is not being subject to any 
pending proceedings leading to such a conviction.  
ii)  
Has not been subject to any adverse findings or any settlement in  
 
civil/criminal proceedings particularly with regard to investments,  
 
financial   matters/business,  misconduct,  fraud,  formation  or  
 
management of a corporate body etc by SBP, other regulatory  
 
authorities (within  or  outside  Pakistan),  professional  bodies  or  
 
government bodies/agencies.  
 
iii)  
Has not contravened any of the requirements and standards of SBP  
 
or  the  equivalent  standards/requirements  of  other  regulatory  
 
authorities (outside  Pakistan  as  well),  professional  bodies  or  
 
government bodies/agencies.  
iv)  
Has not been involved with (management or conduct of the affairs  
 
of) a company/firm or any other organization that has been refused  
 
registration/licence to carry out trade, business etc.  
 
v)  
Has not been involved with (management or conduct of the affairs  
 
of) a company/firm whose registration/licence has been revoked or  
 
cancelled or gone into liquidation or other similar proceedings due  
 
to  mismanagement  of  affairs,  financial     misconduct  or  mal  
 
practices.  
 
vi) 
Has not been debarred  for  being  Chief  Executive,  Chairman, 
Director, Controlling Shareholder/Sponsor or Key Executive of a 
company/firm or in similar capacity. 
 
2. TRACK RECORD 
 
i) 
The person must have an impeccable track record in the companies 
served either in the capacity of an employee or director/Chief 
Executive or as Chairman.  
 
ii)  
Has not  been  demoted,  dismissed  or  forced  to  resign  from  
 
employment by the bank/DFI, or has not been removed by   any  
 
regulator  or  government  body,  in  the  capacity  of  employee,  
 
director, chairman or key executive of the company/firm or any  
 
other position of  trust.  
40 
 
 
 
 
3.  SOLVENCY & FINANCIAL INTEGRITY  
 
i) 
Has not  been  associated  with  any  illegal  activity  concerning 
banking  business,  deposit  taking,  financial  dealing  and  other 
business. 
 
ii)  
Has not been in default of payment of dues owed to any financial  
 
institution and/ or default in payment of any taxes in individual  
 
capacity or as proprietary concern or any partnership firm or in any  
 
private unlisted/listed company.  
 
iii)  
Has not been associated as director and/or chief executive with the  
 
corporate bodies who have defaulted in payment of Government  
 
duties/taxes etc.  
 
iv) 
Has sufficient means to discharge his/her financial obligations, if 
any. 
 
 
4.  QUALIFICATION & EXPERIENCE  
 
This section shall apply separately for Directors, CEO and Key Executives 
of Banks/DFIs as under: - 
 
i.   Directors on the Board  
a.  Must have management/business experience of at least 5 years at  
 
senior  level  in  an  active  capacity.  In  case  of  lawyers, 7 years  
 
experience   is   required,   provided   that   they   are   not  
 
practicing/involved with or acting as legal counsel/adviser or on  
 
payroll of a bank where he is proposed to be appointed as director.  
b.  Minimum qualification for a person to be appointed as Director on  
 
the  Board  of  a  bank/DFI  is  graduation.  Higher  education  
 
accomplished in the discipline of banking and finance may be an  
 
added qualification.  
 
ii.   Chief Executive Officer  
a.  Must be a career banker having at least 5 years of experience at  
 
senior level as EVP and above or equivalent i.e. Group Head of  
 
Financial/Business Line in a bank and posses expertise and skill set  
 
to  undertake  responsibilities  of  the  position  effectively  and  
 
prudently.  
 
b.  Should be between 40 to 70 years of age.  
41 
 
 
 
c.   Should have minimum qualification of graduation or equivalent in  
 
the   discipline   of   banking,   finance,   economics,   business  
 
administration and related fields. CEO of the Islamic Bank should  
 
preferably be having experience/training in Islamic Banking.  
 
iii.   Key Executive  
a.  Must be a qualified professional possessing relevant experience &  
 
degree relating to the job/assignment.  
 
5. CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 
i. 
The CEO is not a Chairman of the Board of Directors of the same 
bank/DFI .  
 
ii.  
The Directors on the Board should avoid conflict of interest in their  
 
activities with, and commitments to, other organizations.  
 
iii.  
Is not a director (including as a nominee director of the Government) of  
 
any other bank/DFI. However, this clause will not be applicable in  
 
case  of  Managing  Director  and  other  employees  of  National  
 
Investment Trust (NIT) nominated on the Board of banks/DFIs, till its  
 
privatization.  
 
iv.  
No person can become a Director of the bank/DFI, if he/she is :  
a.  Holding  substantial  interest  or  is  working  as  Chairman,  
 
Director, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Internal  
Auditor,   Research   Analyst   or   Trader 
(by   whatever 
name/designation called) of a: 
 
i. 
Exchange Company (firm or sole proprietorship) 
ii. 
Member of a Stock Exchange 
iii. 
Corporate Brokerage House 
iv. 
Any company/entity  owned  and  controlled  by  the 
person mentioned at (i) to (iii) above  
 
b.  Acting,  either  in  personal  capacity  and/or  through  firm/  
 
company where he/she has substantial interest, as consultant  
 
/advisor to bank/DFI in which he/she intends to become a  
 
director.  
 
6. OTHERS 
 
i. 
Not more than 25% directors of the same family are permitted to be on 
the Board of a bank/DFI. 
 
ii. 
Maximum two members of Board of Directors of a bank/DFI including 
its CEO can be the Executive Directors. 
42 
 
 
 
 
iii.  
Directors  should  preferably  be  professionals  from  diversified  
 
field/industry. However, a minimum of 25% members of Board of  
 
Directors of a bank/DFI shall be Independent Directors.  
 
iv.  
No member of Senate, National/ Provincial Assembly, Local bodies  
 
shall  be appointed/ recommended for appointment as Member of  
 
Board of Directors and/or Chief Executive Officer/Key Executive of  
 
any bank/DFI.  
 
v.  
No Key Executive  shall  head  more  than  one  functional  area.  
 
Furthermore, he/she shall not hold directorship in his /her personal  
 
capacity: (a)  in  a  business  concern  which  is  also  a  client  of  the  
 
bank/DFI, and (b) in any other financial institution.  
43 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE - I  
PROFORMA - FIT & PROPER TEST 
             
 
 
 
        
     
 
 
        
 
      
 
C.N.I.C No. 
N.I.C. No.(Old) 
 
Passport Number (for foreign national) 
 
Present Residential Address in Full 
 
 
Permanent Residential Address in Full 
 
 
Residential Telephone Number (s)  
Mobile Number 
 
If you have changed your name, state previous name and reason for change 
 
Academic Education 
Qualification 
Name & Address of Degree 
Awarding Institution 
Date of Completion 
 
 
 
 
Professional Education 
Qualification 
Name & Address of Institution/ 
Professional Body 
Date of Completion 
 
 
 
 
Trainings if any 
  Cont’d… 
 
 
Full Name 
 
   Photo  
   1X 1 1/2 
 
 
Father’s Name 
Date of Birth 
Place of Birth (City and Country) 
Nationality (ies) 
NTN Number 
44 
 
 
 
 
Existing Employment 
Present Designation 
Present Department 
Official Address 
Telephone Number (s) 
Email 
 
Please provide  complete  and true  particulars of all business (es), including  proprietary 
concern/partnership firms,  companies,  in which you have been associated as a 
proprietor, partner or a director thereof during the last ten years and the accounts maintained 
by them: 
Name        of       Proprietary 
Concern/Partnership Firm/    
Company 
Name of bank  and/or  NBFIs 
Together    with     Name     of 
Branches 
Account Number (s) 
 
 
 
 
Position held during the last ten years (along with name and address of company/institution/ 
body where appointment held, nature of the company/institution/body and dates of 
appointment) 
 
 
 
Position of the shares held in the bank 
Number of shares held as of ___ 
As a Sponsor Shareholder 
• 
Own name 
• 
In name of your company 
• 
In name of  your family member  
Other than Sponsor Shareholder 
• 
Own name 
• 
In name of your company 
• 
In name of  your family member 
 
  
 
 
 
 
(Signature of concerned official) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 
 
 
  
ANNEXURE-II  
 
Affidavit  
(On Non-Judicial Stamp Paper)  
 
I, ________________ son/daughter/wife of _______________________ adult, resident  
of _________________________________________________________________________ 
and holding CNIC No. ______________________________ do hereby state on solemn 
affirmation as under:- 
 
a.   that  the  deponent  hereby confirm that the statement made and  the  
 
information supplied in the attached questionnaire and the Annexure-I and  
 
the answers thereof are correct and that there are no other facts that are  
 
relevant for “Fit and Proper Test”  
 
b.    that  the  deponent  undertake  that the State Bank of Pakistan may seek  
 additional information from any third party it deems necessary in view of  
 assessing “Fit and Proper Test”  
 
c.    that the deponent undertake to bring to the attention of the State Bank of  
 
Pakistan any matter which may potentially affect my status as being someone  
 
fit and proper as and when it crops up; and  
 
d.   that whatever is stated above is correct to the best of my knowledge and belief  
 
and nothing has been concealed therefrom.  
 
 
DEPONENT  
 
The Deponent is identified by me  
 
 
Signature _______________________  
 
ADVOCATE  
(Name and Seal)  
 
Solemnly affirmed before me on this ______ day of _____________ at ______________ by 
the Deponent above named who is identified to me by ________________, Advocate, 
who is known to me personally.  
 
 
Signature__________________________________________ 
OATH COMMISSIONER FOR TAKING AFFIDAVIT  
 
(Name and Seal)  
46 
 
 
 
 
QUESTIONNAIRE FOR ACCESSING “FIT & PROPER TEST”  
Please    answer     the  following  questions  by  entering a tick (√ ) in the 
appropriate box. If answer of any of these questions in YES and need 
explanation, use a separate sheet with proper reference to the question. 
 
   Yes   No 
 
1. 
 
Have you ever been convicted/involved in any fraud/forgery, 
financial crime etc, in Pakistan or elsewhere, or is being subject to  
any pending proceedings leading to any conviction? 
□ □ 
2. 
Have  you  ever     been   associated  with any illegal activity  
concerning banking business, deposit taking, financial dealing  
and other business 
□ □ 
3. 
Have you ever been subject to any adverse findings or any  
settlement in civil/criminal proceedings particularly with regard  
to investments, financial/business, misconduct, fraud, formation  
or management of a corporate body etc by SBP, other regulators,  
professional bodies or government bodies/agencies? 
□ □ 
4. 
Have you ever   contravened  any  of   the   requirements  and  
standards of regulatory system or the equivalent standards or  
requirements of other regulatory authorities? 
□ □ 
5. 
Have you ever been involved with a company or firm or other  
organization that has been refused registration/licence to carry  
out trade, business etc? 
□ □ 
6. 
Have you ever been involved with a company/firm whose  
registration/licence has been revoked or cancelled or gone into  
liquidation or other similar proceedings? 
□ □ 
7. 
Have  you   ever  been  debarred for  being  Chief  Executive,  
Chairman, Director or Sponsor/Strategic Investor of a company,  
especially financial institutions? 
□ □ 
8. 
Have you ever been dismissed/ asked to resign/resigned in 
Pakistan or elsewhere in order to avoid legal or disciplinary 
action?  
□ □ 
9. 
Have you ever resigned from a professional or regulatory  
body in Pakistan or elsewhere in order to  avoid  legal  or 
disciplinary action?  
□ □ 
10. 
Have you ever been disqualified/   removed   by 
regulators/Government bodies/ agencies?  
□ □ 
11. 
Have you ever been in default of payment of dues owed to any  
financial   institution in   individual  capacity or  as  proprietary  
 concern or any partnership firm or in any private unlisted/listed  
 company? 
□ □ 
12 
Have you ever been in default of taxes in individual capacity or  
as proprietary concern or any partnership firm or in any private  
listed/unlisted company? 
□ □ 
13 
Have you ever been associated as director and/or chief executive  
with the   corporate   bodies  whose  corporate and  tax  record,  
including custom duties, central excise and sales tax has been  
unsatisfactory? 
□ □ 
cont’d...  
47 
 
 
 
 
  Yes   No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature
______________________ 
Name
______________________ 
Position
______________________ 
Date
______________________ 
 
 
 
 
14. 
Have you entered into  any agreement with any other  person 
(natural or legal) which  will influence the way in which you 
exercise your voting rights or the way in which you otherwise 
behave in your relationship with the authorized entity? 
□ □ 
15. 
Are  you  a   director on   the Board  of  Directors of  any  other  
Financial Institution(s)? 
□ □ 
16. 
Are you a  Chairman, Chief Executive,  Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief Internal Auditor, Research Analyst or Trader (by whatever 
name/designation called) of a  Exchange Company (firm or sole 
proprietorship), member of a Stock Exchange, Corporate 
Brokerage House? 
□ □ 
17. 
Are you  owing/controlling  any Exchange Company or 
Corporate Entity? 
□ □ 
18. 
Have you been or are  you  working as consultant or adviser of 
bank/DFI in which you intend to become a director? 
□ □ 
19. 
Are you employee of the Bank/DFI? 
□ □ 
20. 
Are  you  employee of a company/entity/organization where 
sponsor shareholders of bank/DFI have substantial interest 
□ □ 
21. 
Are you a member/office bearer of any political party or 
member  of Senate/National/Provincial Assembly/Local Body? 
□ □ 
22. 
If independent director, have  you enclosed declaration  in this 
behalf? 
□ □ 
23. 
Any other information that is relevant for the purpose of SBP 
and needs to be mentioned? 
□ □ 
48 
 
 
ANNEXURE - III  
 
PROFORMA - FITNESS & PROPRIETARY OF KEY EXECUTIVES 
             
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
      
 
    
       
 
 
 
 
 
C.N.I.C No. 
N.I.C. No.(Old) 
 
Telephone Number (s) 
Mobile number 
 
Academic Education 
Qualification 
Name & Address of Degree 
Awarding Institution 
Date of Completion 
 
 
 
 
Professional Education 
Qualification 
Name & Address of Degree 
Awarding Institution 
Date of Completion 
 
 
 
 
Trainings if any 
 
Previous Employment (s) (date-wise) 
Designation 
Department 
Official Address 
Telephone Number (s) 
 
Has ever been convicted of any offence 
Yes 
No 
If yes, nature of offence and penalty imposed 
 
 
Has ever been censured or penalized by any financial regulator (local or 
foreign)? 
Yes 
No 
If yes, reasons for adverse findings and amount of penalty imposed (if any) 
 
Have you ever been dismissed from employment 
Yes 
No 
If yes, name of the employer and reason for dismissal 
 
 
 
(Signature of the concerned official)  
(Signature and Stamp of Employer)  
 
 
 
Position and Grade held by the Executive 
 
Photo 
1X 1 1/2 
 
Date of assumption of current position (dd/mm/yyyy) 
Full Name 
Father’s Name 
Date of Birth 
Place of Birth (City and Country) 
Nationality (ies) 
NTN Number 
49 
 
 
 
 ANNEXURE- IV 
               
(BPRD Circular No. 5 of 2015) 
DECLARATION BY THE PROPOSING BANK/DFI 
 
(To be signed either by the President/Chief Executive Officer, Head of Human 
Resources or the Company Secretary of the incorporated Bank/DFI) 
 
I, _______________________ on behalf of ___________________ (name of proposing 
Bank/DFI) ("the proposing Bank/DFI") submit the FPT Proforma in respect of Mr./Ms. 
_______________ for the proposed position of ____________________ and declare that: 
(i) 
To the best of my knowledge, information and belief, the information that is 
being submitted to SBP is true, accurate and supports my view that this person 
fulfils all the criteria for the post for which he/she is proposed.   
 
(ii) 
Select (9) as appropriate: 
 
 
a) 
The Bank/DFI has satisfied itself that the proposed person meets the 
requirements of all the applicable laws, rules and regulations including 
Companies Ordinance, 1984, Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962, 
Banks Nationalization Act, 1974 (if applicable) and FPT Criteria and is, 
in the opinion of the Bank/DFI, capable of fulfilling the assigned role.  
 
 
□ 
 
OR 
 
 
 
The Bank/DFI acknowledges that the proposed person needs an 
exemption from some provision(s) of the applicable laws, rules and 
regulations, details of which are given in the attached letter along with 
justifications thereof. 
 
 
□ 
b) 
The bank/DFI has obtained copies of educational degrees/certificates and 
verified the same from relevant institutions/universities or obtained 
certified copies of verification from previous employer directly. 
 
 
□ 
 
OR 
 
The bank/DFI undertakes to confirm to the SBP within a period of four 
(4) months hereof that educational degrees/certificates shall be got 
verified by them and status of the same shall be communicated to SBP 
accordingly.   
 
 
□ 
c) 
The bank/DFI has obtained satisfactory confidential reports from the 
former employer(s).  
 
□ 
 
 
Signature & Stamp of Bank/DFI’s Official:  ________________________________ 
50 
 
 
 
  
OR 
 
 
The bank/DFI undertakes to obtain confidential reports from the former 
employer(s) within a period of three (3) months hereof and status of the 
same shall be communicated to SBP accordingly.  
□ 
 
(iii) I am aware that it may be: 
a. an offence and/or  
b. grounds for refusal of this application and/or 
c. grounds for revocation of an authorization granted on the basis of this application 
and/or 
d. grounds for SBP to commence an administrative sanctions procedure against both 
myself and/or the Bank/DFI 
 
       if the undersigned and/or the Bank/DFI knowingly or recklessly  
• provide false or misleading information and/or to make a false or misleading statement 
(which, I acknowledge, may include the withholding by me and/or the Bank/DFI of 
relevant information) in this application for authorization 
• fail to inform and/or withhold from the SBP details of any change in 
circumstances/new information which is relevant and/or material to the status of the 
proposed person anytime from now on. 
• fail to inform to SBP immediately any legal and/or contractual infirmity resulting from 
behavior, conduct or incapacity in whatever form any time from now on which could 
potentially debar the person from holding the position. 
 
 
 
Dated this                                                         day of                                 
 
Name:                                                              Signature: 
 
Position/Designation: 
 
For and on behalf of (name of Bank/DFI): 
 
 
 
51 
 
 
 
Annexure-AA 
(BPRD Circular 04 of 2008) 
 
Procedure for deposit of sponsor shares into 
a blocked account with CDC 
 
Following   procedure  shall be followed by  banks  for  deposit / transfer  of 
sponsor shares into CDC account: 
 
1.    The existing sponsor shareholders who have already deposited 
 their shares with SBP BSC shall : 
a) Open account (sub-participant account or investor account) at 
CDC exclusively for depositing sponsor shares and subsequent 
bonus and right shares. 
b) Confirm the account number to SBP through company secretary 
of the bank. 
c) On receipt of above confirmation, SBP will allow the withdrawal 
of shares deposited with SBP BSC for deposit with CDC. 
d) The bank shall confirm the deposit of sponsor shares in the CDC account 
within 15 days of release of shares by SBP. 
 
2.  The prospective sponsor shareholders shall open CDC account (sub- participant 
account or investor account) and confirm the account number to SBP through 
Company Secretary of the bank at least 15 days prior to issuance/transfer of 
shares. Further, they shall arrange for confirmation of submission of shares in 
CDC account within 3 days of issuance of shares. 
 
3.   For those sponsor shareholders who are yet to deposit their sponsor shares in a 
blocked account with CDC, shall either open a new account or identify an 
existing account and confirm the same through Company Secretary of the 
bank to SBP by 31st May, 2008 along with schedule for transfer of sponsor 
shares in the account by 31st July, 2008. 
 
 
 
 
                                                             ************************ 
