PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS
FOR 
CONSUMER FINANCING
(Updated on January 31, 2011)
BANKING POLICY & REGULATIONS DEPARTMENT
STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
Disclaimer:
State Bank of Pakistan compiles a booklet of Prudential Regulations from time to time for 
convenience of users. Updated version of such a booklet containing amendments in the 
regulations made through circulars/Circular letters to date is being issued. Due care has been 
taken while incorporating amendments, however, errors and omission may be expected. In 
case of any ambiguity, users are advised to refer to the original circulars/circular letters on 
the relevant subject(s), which are available on SBP’s website (www.sbp.org.pk).
THE TEAM
NAME
DESIGNATION
Inayat Hussain 
Executive Director (BPRG)
Syed Irfan Ali
Director (BPRD)
Muhammad Saleem
Additional Director (BPRD)
Kazi Sarfraz
Joint Director (BPRD)
Amjad Ali
Joint Director (BPRD)
Ishrat Hussain
Deputy Director (BPRD)
Rao Ahmed Mukhtar
Deputy Director (BPRD)
Mahvish Naeem
Assistant Director (BPRD)
Nazia Tahir Bodla
Assistant Director (BPRD)
Website Address:   www.sbp.org.pk
C O N T E N T S
PART-A 
Definitions 
1
PART-B
Minimum 
requirements 
for 
consumer 
financing.
3
PART-C
Regulations
6
Regulation R-1
Facilities to related persons & utilization of 
clean loans for Initial Public Offerings (IPOs)
6
Regulation R-2
Limit on exposure against total consumer 
financing.
6
Regulation R-3
Total financing facilities to be commensurate
with the income.
7
Regulation R-4
General reserve against consumer finance.
7
Regulation R-5
Bar on transfer of facilities from one category
to another to avoid classification.
7
Regulation R-6
Margin requirements.
8
REGULATIONS FOR CREDIT CARDS
Regulation O-1
Receipt of credit cards.
10
Regulation O-2
Statement of accounts.
10
Regulation O-3
Unauthorized/wrong transactions.
10
Regulation O-4
Partial payment by cardholder.
10
Regulation O-5
Due date for payment.
10
Regulation R-7
Maximum card limit.
11
Regulation R-8
Classification and provisioning.
11
REGULATIONS FOR AUTO LOANS
Regulation R-9
Prohibition 
on 
financing 
commercial 
vehicles.
  12
Regulation R-10
Maximum tenure of loan.
  12
Regulation R-11
Minimum down payment.
  12
Regulation R-12
Hypothecation of vehicles.
  12
Regulation R-13
Insurance.
  12
Regulation O-6
Repossession of vehicles.
  12
Regulation O-7
Repayment schedule.
  13
Regulation O-8
Financing the purchase of used cars.
  
  13
Regulation O-9
Authorized auto dealers.
  13
Regulation R-14
Classification and provisioning.
13
REGULATIONS FOR HOUSING FINANCE
Regulation R-15
Maximum per party limit.
14
Regulation R-16
Debt-equity ratio.
14
Regulation R-17
Maximum tenure of loan.
14
Regulation R-18
Mortgage.
14
Regulation R-19
Evaluation of property.
15
Regulation R-20
Monitoring of market conditions.
15
Regulation R-21
Floating rate products.
15
Regulation R-22
Classification and provisioning.
15
REGULATIONS FOR PERSONAL LOANS INCLUDING LOANS
FOR THE PURCHASE OF CONSUMER DURABLES
Regulation R-23
Per party limit.
17
Regulation R-24
Hypothecation.
17
Regulation R-25
Maximum tenure of loan.
17
Regulation R-26
Running/revolving finance.
18
Regulation R-27
Classification and provisioning.
18
Annexure 
  19
P R E F A C E
The amendments made in the Prudential Regulations for Consumer Financing 
during January 31, 2009 to January 31, 2011 have been incorporated in this updated 
version for ease of reference of the users.
The Prudential Regulations for Consumer Financing covers Risk Management (R), 
and Operations (O) aspects.  Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking may 
be referred to for areas concerning Corporate Governance (G) and Customer Due 
Diligence and Anti Money Laundering (M), However, in case of international 
operations, the Prudential Regulations of host country shall prevail.
The Prudential Regulations for Consumer Financing do not supersede other 
directives issued by State Bank of Pakistan in respect of areas not covered here.  Any 
violation or circumvention of these regulations shall render the bank/DFI/officer(s) 
concerned liable for penalties under the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962.
SYED IRFAN ALI 
Director
Banking Policy & Regulation Department
1
PART – A
D E F I N I T I O N S
1. Bank means a banking company as defined in the Banking Companies 
Ordinance, 1962. 
2. Borrower means an individual to whom a bank/DFI has allowed any consumer 
financing during the course of business.
3. Consumer Financing means any financing allowed to individuals for meeting 
their personal, family or household needs. The facilities categorized as Consumer 
Financing are given as under:
i)
Credit Cards mean cards which allow a customer to make payments on 
credit. Supplementary credit cards shall be considered part of the principal 
borrower for the purposes of these regulations.  Corporate Cards will not 
fall under this category and shall be regulated by Prudential Regulations for 
Corporate/Commercial Banking or Prudential Regulations for SMEs 
Financing as the case may be. The regulations for credit cards shall also be 
applicable on charge cards, debit cards, stored value cards and BTF (Balance 
Transfer Facility).
ii)
Auto Loans mean the loans to purchase the vehicle for personal use. 
iii)
Housing Finance means loan provided to individuals for the purchase of 
residential house/apartment/land.   The loans availed for the purpose of 
making improvements in house/apartment/land shall also fall under this 
category.
iv)
Personal Loans mean the loans to individuals for the payment of goods, 
services and expenses and include Running Finance/Revolving Credit to 
individuals.
4. DFI means Development Financial Institution and includes the Pakistan 
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), the Saudi Pak Industrial 
and Agricultural Investment Company Limited, the Pak Kuwait Investment 
Company Limited, the Pak Libya Holding Company Limited, the Pak Oman 
Investment Company (Pvt.) Limited, Investment Corporation of Pakistan, House 
Building Finance Corporation,  Pak Brunei Investment Company Limited1, Pak-
Iran Joint Investment Company Limited2, Pak-China Investment Company 
Limited3, and any other financial institution notified under Section 3-A of the 
Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962.
5. Documents include vouchers, cheques, bills, pay-orders, promissory notes, 
securities for leases/advances and claims by or against the bank/DFI or other 
papers supporting entries in the books of a bank/DFI.
6. Equity of the Bank/DFI means Tier-I Capital or Core Capital and includes paid-
up capital, general reserves, balance in share premium account, reserve for issue 
                                               
1 Specified vide GoP Notification No.F.1(4)-BKG(R&S)/2002 dated December 21, 2006.
2 Specified vide GoP Notification No.F.1(4)-BKG(R&S)/2002 dated July 21, 2007.
3 Specified vide GoP Notification No.F.1(4)-BKG(R&S)/2002 dated November 29, 2007.
2
of bonus shares and retained earnings/accumulated losses as disclosed in latest 
annual audited financial statements. In case of branches of foreign banks 
operating in Pakistan, equity will mean capital maintained, free of losses and 
provisions, under Section 13 of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962.
7. Financial Institutions mean banks, Development Financial Institutions (DFIs) 
and Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs).
8. Government Securities shall include such types of Pak. Rupee obligations of the 
Federal Government or a Provincial Government or of a Corporation wholly 
owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Federal Government or a 
Provincial Government and guaranteed by the Federal Government as the 
Federal Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare, to the 
extent determined from time to time, to be Government Securities.
9. Liquid Assets are the assets which are readily convertible into cash without 
recourse to a court of law and mean encashment/realizable value of government 
securities, bank deposits, gold ornaments, gold bullion1, certificates of deposit, 
shares of listed companies which are actively traded on the stock exchange, NIT 
Units, certificates of mutual funds, Certificates of Investment (COIs) issued by 
DFIs/NBFCs rated at least ‘A’ by a credit rating agency on the approved panel of 
State Bank of Pakistan, listed TFCs rated at least ‘A’ by a credit rating agency on 
the approved panel of State Bank of Pakistan and certificates of asset 
management companies for which there is a book maker quoting daily offer and 
bid rates and there is active secondary market trading. These assets with 
appropriate margins should be in possession of the banks/DFIs with perfected 
lien.
Guarantees issued by domestic banks/DFIs when received as collateral by 
banks/DFIs will be treated at par with liquid assets whereas, for guarantees 
issued by foreign banks, the issuing banks’ rating, assigned either by Standard & 
Poors, Moody’s or Fitch-Ibca, should be ‘A’ and above or equivalent.
The inter-branch indemnity/guarantee issued by the bank’s overseas branch in 
favor of its sister branch in Pakistan, would also be treated at par with liquid 
assets, provided the bank is rated ‘A’ and above or equivalent either by Standard 
& Poors, Moody’s or Fitch-Ibca. The indemnity for this purpose should be similar 
to a guarantee i.e. unconditional and demand in nature.
10. NBFC means Non-Banking Finance Company and includes a Modaraba, Leasing 
Company, Housing Finance Company, Investment Bank, Discount House, Asset 
Management Company and a Venture Capital Company.
11. Secured means exposure backed by tangible security with appropriate margins 
(in cases where margin has been prescribed by State Bank of Pakistan, 
appropriate margin shall at least be equal to the prescribed margin).  Exposure 
without any tangible security is defined as clean.
12. Tangible Security
means liquid assets (as defined in these Prudential 
Regulations), mortgage of land and building, hypothecation or charge on vehicle, 
but does not include hypothecation of household goods, etc. 
                                               
1 Inserted vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 16 of 2010 dated July 15, 2010.
3
PART – B
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSUMER FINANCING
Apart from the specific regulations given under each mode of financing separately, 
general requirements laid down here should also be followed by the banks/DFIs 
while undertaking consumer financing. It may be noted that these are the minimum 
requirements and should not in any way be construed to restrict the role of the
management of the banks/DFIs to further strengthen the risk management processes 
through establishing comprehensive credit risk management systems appropriate to 
their type, scope, sophistication and scale of operations. The Board of Directors of 
the banks/DFIs are required to establish policies, procedures and practices to define 
risks, stipulate responsibilities, specify security requirements, design internal 
controls and then ensure strict compliance with them. 
PRE-OPERATIONS:
Before embarking upon or undertaking consumer financing, the banks/DFIs shall 
implement/follow the guidelines given below.  The banks/DFIs already involved in 
the consumer financing will ensure compliance with these guidelines within six 
months of the date of issuance of Prudential Regulations for Consumer Financing.
1.
Banks/DFIs shall establish separate Risk Management capacity for the purpose 
of consumer financing, which will be suitably staffed by personnel having 
sufficient expertise and experience in the field of consumer finance/business.
2.
The banks/DFIs shall prepare comprehensive consumer credit policy duly 
approved by their Board of Directors (in case of foreign banks, by Country 
Head and Executive/Management Committee), which shall interalia cover loan 
administration, including documentation, disbursement and appropriate 
monitoring mechanism.  The policy shall explicitly specify the functions, 
responsibilities and various staff positions’ powers/authority relating to 
approval/sanction of consumer financing facility.
3.
For every type of consumer finance activity, the bank/DFI shall develop a 
specific program.  The program shall include the objective/quantitative 
parameters for the eligibility of the borrower and determining the maximum 
permissible limit per borrower.
4.
Banks/DFIs shall put in place an efficient computer based MIS for the purpose 
of consumer finance, which should be able to effectively cater to the needs of 
consumer financing portfolio and should be flexible enough to generate 
necessary information reports used by the management for effective monitoring 
of the bank’s/DFI’s exposure in the area.  The MIS is expected to generate the 
following periodical reports:

Delinquency reports (for 30, 60, 90, 180 & 360 days and above) on monthly 
basis.

Reports interrelating delinquencies with various types of customers or 
various attributes of the customers to enable the management to take 
important policy decisions and make appropriate modifications in the 
lending program.
4

Quarterly product wise profit and loss account duly adjusted with the 
provisions on account of classified accounts.  These profit and loss 
statements should be placed before the Board of Directors in the immediate 
next Board Meeting.  The branches of foreign banks in order to comply with 
this condition shall place the reports before a committee comprising of 
CEO/Country Manager, CFO and Head of Consumer Business.
5.
The banks/DFIs shall develop comprehensive recovery procedures for the 
delinquent consumer loans.  The recovery procedures may vary from product 
to product.  However, distinct and objective triggers should be prescribed for 
taking pre-planned enforcement/recovery measures.
6.
The banks/DFIs desirous of undertaking consumer finance will become a 
member of at least one Consumer Credit Information Bureau.  Moreover, the 
banks/DFIs may share information/data among themselves or subscribe to 
other databases as they deem fit and appropriate.
7.
The financial institutions starting consumer financing are encouraged to impart 
sufficient training on an ongoing basis to their staff to raise their capability 
regarding various aspects of consumer finance.
8.
The banks/DFIs shall prepare standardized set of borrowing and recourse
documents (duly cleared by their legal counsels) for each type of consumer 
financing.
OPERATIONS:
1.
Consumer financing, like other credit facilities, must be subject to the 
bank’s/DFI’s risk management process setup for this particular business. The 
process may include, identifying source of repayment and assessing customers’ 
ability to repay, his/her past dealings with the bank/DFI, the net worth and 
information obtained from a Consumer Credit Information Bureau.
2.
At the time of granting facility under various modes of consumer financing, 
banks/DFIs shall obtain a written declaration on the prescribed format 
attached as Annexure–CF1 from the borrower divulging details of various 
facilities already obtained from other banks/financial institutions1. The 
banks/DFIs should carefully study the details given in the undertaking and 
allow fresh finance/limit only after ensuring compliance with the limits set in 
these PRs for exposure and for total monthly amortization payments of 
consumer loans. The undertaking will also help banks/DFIs to avoid exposure 
against a person having multiple facilities from different financial institutions 
on the strength of an individual source of repayment.
3.
Before allowing any facility, the banks/DFIs shall obtain a consumer credit 
report from the Credit Information Bureau of State Bank of Pakistan or from 
any consumer Credit Information Bureau of which they are a member1. The 
report will be given due weightage while making credit decision.
                                               
1 Amended vide BPRD Circular No. 4 of 2009 dated February 11, 2009.
5
4.
Internal audit and control function of the bank/DFI, apart from other things,
should be designed and strengthened so that it can efficiently undertake an 
objective review of the consumer finance portfolio from time to time to assess 
various risks and possible weaknesses. The internal audit should also assess the 
adequacy of the internal controls and ensure that the required policies and 
standards are developed and practiced. Internal audit should also comment on 
the steps taken by the management to rectify the weaknesses pointed out by 
them in their previous reports for reducing the level of risk.
5.
The banks/DFIs shall ensure that their accounting and computer systems are 
well equipped to avoid charging of mark-up on mark-up.  For this purpose, it 
should be ensured that the mark-up charged on the outstanding amount is kept 
separate from the principal.
6.
The banks/DFIs shall ensure that any repayment made by the borrower is 
accounted for before applying mark-up on the outstanding amount.
DISCLOSURE/ETHICS:
The banks/DFIs must clearly disclose, all the important terms, conditions, fees, 
charges and penalties, which interalia include Annualized Percentage Rate, pre-
payment penalties and the conditions under which they apply.  For ease of reference 
and guidance of their customers, banks/DFIs are encouraged to publish brochures 
regarding frequently asked questions.
For the purposes of this regulation, Annualized Percentage Rate means as follows:
        Mark-up paid for the period         x           360            x   100
                   Outstanding Principal Amount             No. of Days   
6
PART – C
R E G U L A T I O N S
REGULATION R-1
FACILITIES TO RELATED PERSONS AND UTILIZATION OF
CLEAN LOANS FOR INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (IPOs)
Facilities to Related Persons:
The consumer finance facilities extended by 
banks/DFIs to their directors, major shareholders, employees and family members 
of these persons shall be at arms length basis and on normal terms and conditions 
applicable for other customers of the banks/DFIs.  The banks/DFIs shall ensure that 
the appraisal standards are not compromised in such cases and market rates are 
used for these persons. This condition shall not apply to the consumer financing 
allowed by the banks/DFIs to their employees as part of compensation package 
provided the detailed terms and conditions of the benefits which the banks/DFIs 
want to give to their employees are specifically mentioned in the Employees Service 
Rules/HR Policy. These employees Service Rules/HR policy should be duly 
approved by the Board of Directors. Further, such consumer financing to the 
employees should be treated as staff loans and not as general consumer loans.1
Utilization of Clean Loans for Initial Public Offerings IPOs: While the State Bank’s 
intent is not to create any undue hindrance in the smooth flow of consumer 
financing to the borrowers, the banks /DFIs are, however, advised to institute 
necessary checks, so that clean loans are not used for subscription in Initial Public 
Offerings (IPOs). In this connection, State Bank of Pakistan suggests the following 
two minimum requirements:
a)
At the time of sanction of a clean consumer loan/credit line, the banks/DFIs 
should obtain an undertaking from the client, that the drawings from the loan 
account will not be used for subscription in an IPO.
b)
The banks/DFIs should introduce an internal system, whereby, no cheques, 
drafts and/or payment instructions will be made for an IPO subscription 
account from a clean personal loan/credit line account.
REGULATION R-2
LIMIT ON EXPOSURE AGAINST 
TOTAL CONSUMER FINANCING
Banks/DFIs shall ensure that the aggregate exposure under all consumer financing 
facilities at the end of first year and second year of the start of their consumer 
financing does not exceed 2 times and 4 times of their equity respectively.  For 
subsequent years, following limits are placed on the total consumer financing 
facilities:
PERCENTAGE OF CLASSIFIED CONSUMER 
FINANCING TO TOTAL CONSUMER 
FINANCING
MAXIMUM LIMIT
a)
Below 3%
b)
Below 5%
c)
Below 10%
d)
Upto and above 10%
10 times of the equity
6 times of the equity
4 times of the equity
2 times of the equity
                                               
1 Substituted vide BPRD Circular No. 01 of 2011 dated January 06, 2011.
7
REGULATION R-3
TOTAL FINANCING FACILITIES TO BE
COMMENSURATE WITH THE INCOME
While extending financing facilities to their customers, the banks/DFIs should 
ensure that the total installment of the loans extended by the financial institutions is 
commensurate with monthly income and repayment capacity of the borrower. In this 
connection, while determining the credit worthiness and repayment capacity of the 
prospective borrower,
the banks/DFIs shall ensure that the total monthly 
amortization payments of consumer loans should not exceed 50% of the net 
disposable income of the prospective borrower1. This measure would be in addition 
to banks’/DFIs’ usual evaluations of each proposal concerning credit worthiness of 
the borrowers, to ensure that the banks’/DFIs’ portfolio under consumer finance 
fulfills the prudential norms and instructions issued by the State Bank of Pakistan 
and does not impair the soundness and safety of the bank/DFI itself. 
2. Banks/DFIs may waive the requirement of 50% Debt Burden in case a Credit 
Card and Personal loan is properly secured through liquid assets (as defined in 
prudential regulations) with minimum 30% margin.2
REGULATION R-4
GENERAL RESERVE AGAINST CONSUMER FINANCE:
The banks/DFIs shall maintain a general reserve at least equivalent to 1.5% of the 
consumer portfolio which is fully secured and 5% of the consumer portfolio which is 
unsecured, to protect them from the risks associated with the economic cyclical 
nature of this business.
The above reserve requirement will, however, be maintained for the performing 
portion only of consumer portfolio.
REGULATION R-5
BAR ON TRANSFER OF FACILITIES FROM ONE 
CATEGORY TO ANOTHER TO AVOID CLASSIFICATION:
The banks/DFIs shall not transfer any loan or facility to be classified, from one 
category of consumer finance to another, to avoid classification.
REGULATION R-5A 3  
RESCHEDULING/RESTRUCTURING OF NON-PERFORMING CONSUMER 
LOANS:
a) Banks/DFIs should frame policy for rescheduling/ restructuring of non-
performing consumer loans. The policy should be approved by the Board of 
Directors or by the Country Head/Executive/Management Committee in case of 
branches of foreign banks.
b) For the purpose of rescheduling/ restructuring, banks/DFIs may:
                                               
1 Amended vide BPRD Circular No. 04 of 2009 dated February 11, 2009.
2 Inserted vide BPRD Circular No. 01 of 2011 dated January 06, 2011.
3 Inserted vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 43 0f 2009 dated December 31, 2009.
8
i)
Club or consolidate outstanding amounts on account of personal loans and 
credit cards and create one loan. The new loan so created shall be placed in 
the lowest category of   classification amongst the classifications of the loans 
clubbed.
ii) Convert revolving facility into an installment loan.
iii) Change the tenure of the loan by maximum two years beyond any regulatory 
cap on maximum tenure.
c) Rescheduling/ restructuring should not be done just to avoid classification of 
loans /advances and provisioning requirements. In this connection, banks /DFIs 
shall ensure that consumer financing facilities of any borrower should not be 
rescheduled/ restructured more than once within 12 months and three times 
during five year period.
d) While considering rescheduling/restructuring, banks/DFIs should, inter alia, 
take into account the repayment capacity of the borrower. The condition of 50% 
of Debt Burden Requirement (DBR) mentioned at Regulation R-3 of Prudential 
Regulations for Consumer Financing shall not be applicable to loan rescheduled/ 
restructured. However, any new consumer financing facility extended to a 
borrower who is availing any rescheduled/ restructured facility shall be subject 
to observance of minimum DBR prescribed in the Regulation R-3 of Prudential 
Regulations for Consumer Financing.
e) The status of classification of the non-performing loans shall not be changed 
because of rescheduling/restructuring unless borrower has paid at least 10% of 
the rescheduled/restructured amount or six installments as per terms & 
conditions of the rescheduling/ restructuring. However, for internal monitoring 
purpose, banks/DFIs may re-set the dpd (days past due) counter of the newly 
created loan to “0” dpd.
f)
Provisions already held against non-performing loan, to be rescheduled 
/restructured, will only be reversed if condition of 10% recovery or six 
installments is met.
g) If the borrower defaults (i.e. reaches 90 dpd) again within one year after 
declassification, the loan shall be classified as under:
Type of Consumer Loan
Classification
Unsecured
Loss
Secured
Same 
category 
in 
which 
it 
was 
prior 
to 
rescheduling/restructuring. Banks/ DFIs, however, at their 
discretion may further downgrade the classification based 
on their own internal policies.
REGULATION R-6
MARGIN REQUIREMENTS:
Banks/DFIs are free to determine the margin requirements on consumer facilities 
provided by them to their clients taking into account the risk profile of the 
borrower(s) in order to secure their interests. However, this relaxation shall not 
apply in case of items, import of which are banned by the Government. 
9
Banks/DFIs will continue to observe margin restrictions on shares/TFCs as per 
existing instructions under Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial 
Banking (R-6). Further, the restrictions prescribed under paragraph 1.A of 
Regulation R-6 of the Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking 
will also be applicable in case of Consumer Financing.
State 
Bank 
of 
Pakistan 
shall 
continue 
to 
exercise 
its 
powers 
for 
fixation/reinstatement of margin requirements on consumer facilities being 
provided by banks/DFIs for various purposes, as and when required.
10
REGULATIONS FOR CREDIT CARDS
REGULATION O-1
The banks/DFIs should take reasonable steps to satisfy themselves that cardholders 
have received the cards, whether personally or by mail. The banks/DFIs should 
advise the card holders of the need to take reasonable steps to keep the card safe and 
the PIN secret so that frauds are avoided.
REGULATION O-2
Banks/DFIs shall provide to the credit card holders, the statement of account at 
monthly intervals, unless there has been no transaction or no outstanding balance on 
the account since last statement.
REGULATION O-3
Banks/DFIs shall be liable for all transactions not authorized by the credit card 
holders after they have been properly served with a notice that the card has been 
lost/stolen.  However, the bank’s/DFI’s liability shall be limited to those amounts 
wrongly charged to the credit card holder’s account.  In order to mitigate the risks in 
this respect, the banks/DFIs are encouraged to take insurance cover against wrongly 
charged amounts, frauds, etc.
The bank/DFI shall, however, not charge the borrowers’ account with any amount 
under the head of “insurance premium” (by what so ever name called) without 
obtaining consent of each existing & prospective customer in writing. In addition to 
obtaining consent in writing, the banks/DFIs may also use the following modes for 
obtaining prior consent of their customers provided proper record is maintained by 
banks/DFIs:-
i)
Customer’s consent on recorded lines via out bound/in bound call center 
(after due verification)
ii) ATM screens – screen pop up before conducting transaction and after 
inputting pin code
iii) Signed consent acquired with credit card application or as separate form
iv) IVR (Integrated Voice Recording)
REGULATION O-4
In case the cardholders make partial payment, the banks/DFIs should take into 
account the partial payment before charging service fee/mark-up amount on the 
outstanding/billed amount so that the possibility of charging excess amount of 
mark-up could be avoided. 
REGULATION O-5
Due date for payment must be specifically mentioned on the accounts statement. If 
fine/penalty is agreed to be charged in case the payment is not made by the due 
date, it should be clearly mentioned in the agreement.
11
REGULATION R-7
MAXIMUM CARD LIMIT 
Bank/DFI may issue credit card to one person with a maximum unsecured limit not 
exceeding  Rs 1,000,000, subject to mandatory credit check & prescribed debt burden 
and condition that total unsecured credit card limits availed by that person from all 
banks/DFIs does not exceed   Rs. 1,000,000.1
Banks/DFIs may merge the clean limits to single person for Credit Cards and 
Personal Loans subject to the condition that total clean limit availed by him/her 
from all banks/DFIs does not exceed Rs. 2,000,000 at any point in time. It is re-
emphasized that the aggregate clean limit of the borrower should not exceed Rs. 
2000,000 in any case.2
Banks/DFIs shall ensure that overall credit card and personal loan limits, both on 
secured as well as on unsecured basis, availed by one person from all banks/DFIs in 
aggregate should not exceed Rs 5,000,000, at any point in time, subject to the 
condition that the overall unsecured/clean facilities on account of credit card and 
personal loan of that individual does not exceed Rs 2,000,000.3
The loan secured against liquid securities shall, however, be exempted from the 
above limit.
The loans against the securities issued by Central Directorate of National Savings 
(CDNS) shall be subject to such limits as are prescribed by CDNS/Federal 
Government/State Bank of Pakistan from time to time.
For Charge Cards, pre-set spending limits generated by the standardized systems, as 
is the global practice, shall be allowed.
REGULATION R-8
CLASSIFICATION AND PROVISIONING
The credit card advances shall be classified and provided for in the following 
manner:
CLASSIFICATION
DETERMINANT
TREATMENT OF 
INCOME
PROVISION TO
BE MADE*
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Loss.
Where 
mark-
up/interest 
or 
principal 
is 
overdue 
by 180 
days or more from 
the due date.
Unrealized 
mark-
up/interest to be put in 
Suspense Account and 
not to be credited to 
Income Account except 
when realized in cash.
Provision of 100% of the 
difference resulting from 
the outstanding balance of 
principal less the amount 
of liquid securities with 
the bank/DFI.
It is clarified that the lenders are allowed to follow more conservative policies. 
Further, provisioning may be created and maintained by the bank/DFI on a 
portfolio basis provided that the provision maintained by the bank/DFI shall not be 
less than the level required under this Regulation.
                                               
1 Amended vide BPRD Circular No. 4 of 2009 dated February 11, 2009.
2 Inserted vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 43 0f 2009 dated December 31, 2009.
3 Substituted vide BPRD Circular No. 01 of 2011 dated January 06, 2011.
12
REGULATIONS FOR AUTO LOANS
REGULATION R-9
The vehicles to be utilized for commercial purposes shall not be covered under the 
Prudential Regulations for Consumer Financing.  Any such financing shall ensure 
compliance with Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking or 
Prudential Regulations for SMEs Financing.  These regulations shall only apply for 
financing vehicles for personal use including light commercial vehicles also used for 
personal purposes.
REGULATION R-10
The maximum tenure of the auto loan finance shall not exceed seven years.
REGULATION R-11
While allowing auto loans, the banks/DFIs shall ensure that the minimum down 
payment does not fall below 10% of the value of vehicle. Further, banks/DFIs shall 
extend auto loans only for the ex-factory tax paid price fixed by the car 
manufacturers. In other words, banks/DFIs cannot finance the premium charged by 
the dealers and/or investors over and above the ex-factory tax paid price of cars, 
fixed by the manufacturers.
REGULATION R-12
In addition to any other security arrangement on the discretion of the banks/ DFIs, 
the vehicles financed by the banks/DFIs shall be properly secured by way of 
hypothecation. Payments against the sale orders issued by the manufacturers are 
allowed till the time of delivery of the vehicle subject to the condition that payment 
will directly be made to the manufacturer/authorized dealer by the bank/ DFI and 
upon delivery, the vehicle will immediately be hypothecated to the bank/ DFI.
REGULATION R-13
The banks/DFIs shall ensure that the vehicle remains properly insured at all times 
during the tenure of the loan. However, where the bank/DFI holds 100% provision 
against such loan, bank/DFI, if deemed appropriate, may not obtain insurance cover 
for the vehicle for remaining tenure of the loan.1
REGULATION O-6
The clause of repossession in case of default should be clearly stated in the loan 
agreement mentioning specific default period after which the repossession can be 
initiated. The repossession expenses charged to the borrower shall not be more than 
actual incurred by the bank/DFI. However, the maximum amount of repossession 
charges shall be listed in the schedule of charges provided to customers. The 
banks/DFIs shall develop an appropriate procedure for repossession of the vehicles 
and shall ensure that the procedure is strictly in accordance with law.
                                               
1 Substituted vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 32 of 2009 dated October 12, 2009.
13
REGULATION O-7
A detailed repayment schedule should be provided to the borrower at the outset. 
Where alterations become imminent because of late payments or prepayments and 
the installment amount or period changes significantly, the revised schedule should 
be provided to the borrower at the earliest convenience of the bank/DFI but not later 
than 15 days of the change.  Further, even in case of insignificant changes, upon the 
request of the customer, the bank/DFI shall provide him revised repayment 
schedule free of cost.
REGULATION O-8
The banks/DFIs desirous of financing the purchase of used cars shall prepare 
uniform guidelines for determining the value of the used vehicles.  However, in no 
case the bank/DFI shall finance the cars older than five years.
REGULATION O-9
The banks/DFIs should ensure that a good number of authorized auto dealers are
placed at their panel to eliminate the chances of collusion or other unethical 
practices.
REGULATION R-14
The auto loans shall be classified and provided for in the following manner:
CLASSIFICATIO
N
DETERMINANT
TREATMENT OF 
INCOME
PROVISIONS TO
BE MADE*
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1. Substandard.
Where mark-up/ 
interest or 
principal is 
overdue by 90 
days or more from 
the due date.
Unrealized mark-
up/interest to be kept in 
Memorandum Account 
and not to be credited to 
Income Account except 
when realized in cash. 
Unrealized mark 
up/interest already taken 
to income account to be 
reversed and kept in 
Memorandum Account.
Provision of 25% of the 
difference resulting 
from the outstanding 
balance of principal 
less the amount of 
liquid assets.
2. Doubtful.
Where mark-up/ 
interest or 
principal is 
overdue by 180 
days or more from 
the due date.
As above.
Provision of 50% of the 
difference resulting 
from the outstanding 
balance of principal 
less the amount of 
liquid assets.
3. Loss.
Where mark-up/ 
interest or 
principal is 
overdue by one 
year or more from 
the due date
As above.
Provision of 100% of 
the difference resulting 
from the outstanding 
balance of principal 
less the amount of 
liquid assets.
14
REGULATIONS FOR HOUSING FINANCE
REGULATION R-15
Banks/DFIs shall determine the housing finance limit, both in urban and rural areas, 
in accordance with their internal credit policy, credit worthiness and loan repayment 
capacity of the borrowers. At the same time, while determining the credit worthiness 
and repayment capacity of the prospective borrower, banks/DFIs shall ensure that 
the total monthly amortization payments of consumer loans, inclusive of housing 
loan, should not exceed 50% of the net disposable income of the prospective 
borrower.
Banks/DFIs will not allow housing finance purely for the purchase of land/plots; 
rather, such financing would be extended for the purchase of land/plot and 
construction on it. Accordingly, the sanctioned loan limit, assessed on the basis of 
repayment capacity of the borrower, value of land/plot and cost of construction on it 
etc., should be disbursed in tranches, i.e. up to a maximum of 50% of the loan limit 
can be disbursed for the purchase of land/plot, and the remaining amount be 
disbursed for construction there-upon. Further, the lending bank/DFI will take a 
realistic construction schedule from the borrower before allowing disbursement of 
the initial loan limit for the purchase of land/plot.
Banks/DFIs may allow housing finance facility for construction of houses against 
the security of land/plot already owned by their customers. However, the lending 
bank/DFI will ensure that the loan amount is utilized strictly for the construction 
purpose and loan is disbursed in tranches as per construction schedule.
Loans against the security of existing land/plot, or for the purchase of new piece of 
land/plot, for commercial and industrial purposes may be allowed. But such loans 
will be treated as Commercial Loans, which will be covered either under Prudential 
Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking or Prudential Regulations for SMEs 
Financing.
Banks/DFIs may allow Housing Loans in the rural areas provided all relevant 
guidelines/regulations on the subject are complied with by them. 
REGULATION R-16
The housing finance facility shall be provided at a maximum debt-equity ratio of 
85:15.
REGULATION R-17
Banks/DFIs may extend mortgage loans for housing upto any tenure defined in the 
bank’s/DFI’s duly approved credit policy and keeping in view the maturities profile 
of their assets & liabilities.1
REGULATION R-18
The house financed by the bank/DFI shall be mortgaged in bank’s/DFI’s favour by 
way of equitable or registered mortgage.
                                               
1 Amended vide BPRD Circular No. 4 of 2009 dated February 11, 2009.
15
REGULATION R-19
Banks/DFIs shall either engage professional expertise or arrange sufficient training 
for their concerned officials to evaluate the property, assess the genuineness and 
integrity of the title documents, etc.
It may, however, be noted that the requirement of full-scope and desk-top 
evaluation, as required under R-8 and R-11 of Prudential Regulations for
Corporate/Commercial Banking and SMEs Financing respectively, will not be 
applicable on housing finance.
REGULATION R-20
The bank’s/DFI’s management should put in place a mechanism to monitor 
conditions in the real estate market (or other product market) at least on quarterly 
basis to ensure that its policies are aligned to current market conditions.
REGULATION R-21
Banks/DFIs are encouraged to develop floating rate products for extending housing 
finance, thereby managing interest rate risk to avoid its adverse effects. Banks /DFIs 
are also encouraged to develop in-house system to stress test their housing portfolio 
against adverse movements in interest rates as also maturity mismatches.
REGULATION R-22 1
The mortgage loans shall be classified and provided for in the following manner:
CLASSIFICATION
DETERMINANT
TREATMENT OF INCOME
PROVISIONS TO
BE MADE*
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1. Substandard
Where mark-
up/ interest or 
principal is 
overdue by 90 
days or more 
from the due 
date.
Unrealized mark-up/interest 
to be kept in Memorandum 
Account and not to be 
credited to Income Account 
except when realized in cash. 
Unrealized mark up/interest 
already taken to income 
account to be reversed and 
kept in Memorandum 
Account.
Provision of 25% of the
difference resulting from the
outstanding 
balance 
of
principal less the amount of
liquid 
assets 
realizable 
without recourse to a Court 
of Law and
Forced Sale 
Value (FSV) of mortgaged 
properties to the extent of 
50% of such FSV.
2. Doubtful
Where mark-
up/ interest or 
principal is
overdue by 180 
days or more 
from the due 
date.
As above.
Provision of 50% of the
difference resulting from the
outstanding 
balance 
of
principal less the amount of
liquid 
assets 
realizable 
without recourse to a Court 
of Law and
Forced Sale 
Value (FSV) of mortgaged 
properties to the extent of 
50% of such FSV.
                                               
1 Amended vide BSD Circular No. 2 of 2010 dated June 03, 2010.
16
1. Loss
Where mark-
up/ interest or 
principal is 
overdue by one 
year or more 
from the due 
date
As above.
Provision of 100% of the 
difference resulting from the 
outstanding 
balance
of 
principal less the amount of 
liquid 
assets 
realizable 
without recourse to a Court 
of Law and Forced Sale 
Value (FSV) of mortgaged 
properties to the extent of 
50% of such FSV for first and 
second year and 40% of FSV 
for third year from the date 
of classification. Benefit of 
FSV against NPLs shall not 
be available after 3 years 
from 
the 
date 
of 
classification 
of 
loan. 
However, the 40% benefit of 
FSV of land (open plot and 
separate valuation of land if 
building is constructed) shall 
be available for four years 
from 
the 
date 
of 
classification of loan.
* These specific provisions will be in addition to general reserve maintained under Regulation R-4
17
REGULATIONS FOR PERSONAL LOANS INCLUDING
LOANS FOR THE PURCHASE OF CONSUMER DURABLES
REGULATION R-23
CLEAN LIMIT PER PERSON FOR PERSONAL LOANS
Banks/DFIs may assign personal loan limits to one person with a maximum 
unsecured limit not exceeding Rs 1,000,000/, subject to mandatory credit check & 
prescribed debt burden and condition that total unsecured personal loans limits 
availed by that person from all banks/DFIs does not exceed Rs. 1,000,000.1
Banks/DFIs may merge the clean limits to single person for Personal Loans and 
Credit Cards subject to the condition that total clean limit availed by him/her from 
all banks/DFIs does not exceed Rs. 2,000,000 at any point in time. It is re-emphasized 
that the aggregate clean limit of the borrower should not exceed Rs. 2000,000 in any 
case.2
Banks/DFIs shall ensure that overall personal loan limits and credit card limits, both 
on secured as well as on unsecured basis, availed by one person from all banks/DFIs 
in aggregate should not exceed Rs 5,000,000/-, at any point in time, subject to the 
condition that the overall unsecured/clean facilities on account of personal loan and 
credit card of that individual does not exceed Rs 2,000,000.3
The loan secured against liquid securities shall, however, be exempted from this 
limit.
The loans against the securities issued by Central Directorate of National Savings 
(CDNS) shall be subject to such limits as are prescribed by CDNS/Federal 
Government/State Bank of Pakistan from time to time.
REGULATION R-24
In cases, where the loan has been extended to purchase some durable goods/items, 
including personal computers and accessories thereof, the same will be 
hypothecated with the bank/DFI besides other securities, which the bank/DFI may 
require on its own.
REGULATION R-25
The maximum tenure of the loan shall not exceed 5 years. However, this period may 
be extended to 7 years for loans/advances given for educational purposes, provided 
that disbursement of such loans shall directly be made by the bank/DFI to the 
educational institution and the borrower shall not be allowed to utilize/withdraw 
cash directly from the bank/DFI under this head for any other purpose.
                                               
1 Amended vide BPRD Circular No. 4 of 2009 dated February 11, 2009.
2 Inserted vide BPRD Circular Letter No. 43 0f 2009 dated December 31, 2009.
3 Substituted vide BPRD Circular No. 01 of 2001 dated January 06, 2011.
18
REGULATION R-26
In case of Running Finance/Revolving Finance, it shall be ensured that at least 15% 
of the maximum utilization of the loan during the year is cleaned up by the borrower 
for a minimum period of one week.  In case the clean up is not made by the 
borrower, the loan will be appropriately classified. However, banks/DFIs who 
require their customers to repay a minimum amount each month, will be considered 
compliant with this regulation subject to the condition that the aggregate cumulative 
monthly installments exceed the 15% clean up requirement and accordingly the 
loans where the specified minimum repayments are being made by the borrowers 
regularly, will not require classification under this regulation.
REGULATION R-27
The personal loans shall be classified and provided for in the following manner:
CLASSIFICATION
DETERMINANT
TREATMENT OF 
INCOME
PROVISIONS TO
BE MADE*
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1. Substandard.
Where mark-
up/ 
interest 
or principal is 
overdue by 90 
days or more 
from the due 
date.
Unrealized 
mark-
up/interest to be kept 
in 
Memorandum 
Account and not to
be credited to Income 
Account except when 
realized 
in 
cash. 
Unrealized 
mark 
up/interest 
already 
taken 
to 
income 
account 
to 
be 
reversed and kept in 
Memorandum 
Account.
Provision of 25% of the 
difference resulting from 
the outstanding balance of 
principal less the amount 
of liquid assets.
2. Loss.
Where mark-
up/ 
interest 
or principal is 
overdue 
by 
180 days or 
more from the 
due date.
As above.
Provision of 100% of the 
difference resulting from 
the outstanding balance of 
principal less the amount 
of liquid assets.
* These specific provisions will be in addition to general reserves maintained under Regulation R-4
19
ANNEXURE – CF-1 1
UNDERTAKING
I ----------------------------- S/O, D/O, W/O ------------------------------- holder of CNIC ---------------
----------, undertake that the detail of my existing exposure from the “Entire Banking Sector” 
as on---------- is as under:
Details of Credit Cards (Clean) limits being availed from other banks/DFIs:
Sr. #
Name of the Bank/DFI
Approved Limit
Details of Credit Cards (Secured) limits being availed from other banks/DFIs:
Sr. #
Name of the Bank/DFI
Approved Limit
Details of Personal Loan (Clean) limits being availed from other banks/DFIs:
Sr. #
Name of the Bank/DFI
Approved Limit
Amount Outstanding On 
Application date
Details of Personal Loan (Secured) limits being availed from other banks/DFIs:
Sr. #
Name of the Bank/DFI
Approved Limit
Amount Outstanding On 
Application date
Details of other facilities if any (Clean & Secured) being availed from other banks/DFIs:
Sr. #
Name of the Bank/DFI
Approved 
Limit
Nature 
(Clean/Secured)
Current 
Outstanding
Applied Limits (Including the application in process):
Sr. #
Name of the Bank/DFI 
Facility under Process
Nature 
of 
Facility 
(Clean/Secured)
  
Signature:____________________________
Name of Applicant: ____________________
CNIC # _____________________________
                                               
1 Inserted vide BPRD Circular No. 4 of 2009 dated February 11, 2009.
