 
Housing Finance 
Prudential Regulations 
 
 
 
(May, 2014) 
 
 
 
 
 
Infrastructure, Housing & SME Finance Department 
State Bank of Pakistan 
 
 
 
THE TEAM 
 
NAME 
DESIGNATION 
Muhammad Ashraf Khan 
Executive Director-DFG & BPRG 
Syed Samar Hasnain 
Director-IH&SMEFD & AC&MFD 
Imran Ahmad 
Additional Director-IH&SMEFD 
Nafees Khan 
Deputy Director-IH&SMEFD 
Wasif Hussain 
Assistant Director-IH&SMEFD 
 
Website Address: www.sbp.org.pk 
 
 
Preface 
Housing and construction sector is an important driver of economic growth, as it employs large 
labour force worldwide. It also has significant implications for the development of the country’s 
financial markets, and it influences (and is influenced by) fiscal policy. Last but not least, a 
vibrant housing sector has important positive socio-economic implications, with greater 
participation of the populous economically, politically and socially1. 
 
In Pakistan, housing sector can be very instrumental in poverty reduction and economic growth 
as it is labour intensive and has forward and backward linkages with more than forty 
industries2. Investment in the housing sector leads to creation of more jobs in a number of 
allied sectors.  
 
Presently, State Bank of Pakistan is working on few initiatives to create an enabling environment for 
banks/DFIs to increase outreach of housing finance. It involves relatively greater sums of financing 
compared to other consumer finance products and is extended for longer period of time. 
Keeping in view the peculiar nature of housing finance, and to facilitate banks/DFIs in 
enhancing housing finance portfolio, SBP in consultation with different stakeholders, has issued 
separate set of Prudential Regulations specifically for Housing Finance.  
 
It is vital that the banks/DFIs develop a comprehensive understanding of the full spectrum of 
risks inherited in housing finance business. The risk assessment and risk management systems 
of the banks/DFIs should have in-built ability to prompt early warning signals to keep their 
balance sheets safe from any adverse effects. Having adequate safeguards put in place, they 
are encouraged to facilitate housing sector growth through enhanced outreach of financing 
services and innovative products. The banks/DFIs need to ensure that their internal policy 
framework guiding housing finance practices calls for broad scrutiny and due diligence and is 
adequately risk-aligned and resilient to cyclical developments to bolster soundness of the 
economy. 
 
The Prudential Regulations for Housing Finance do not supersede other directives issued by 
State Bank of Pakistan in respect of areas not covered here. Any violation or circumvention of 
these regulations shall render the bank/DFI/officer(s) concerned liable for penalties under the 
Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962. 
 
 
SYED SAMAR HASNAIN 
Director 
Infrastructure, Housing & SME Finance Department
                                                          
 
1 Expanding housing finance to the underserved in South Asia by Tatiana Nenova- The World Bank (2010) 
2 Expanding housing finance to the underserved in South Asia by Tatiana Nenova- The World Bank (2010) 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 1 of 10 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
1. Bank means a banking company as defined in the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962. 
2. Borrower means an individual to whom a bank/DFI has allowed any Housing Finance during 
the course of business. 
3. DFI as defined in Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962. 
4. Documents include vouchers, cheques, bills, pay-orders, promissory notes, securities for 
leases/advances and claims by or against the bank/DFI or other papers supporting entries in 
the books of a bank/DFI. 
5. Housing Finance means financing provided to individuals for the construction, purchase of 
residential house/apartment and for purchase of plot and construction thereupon. The 
finance availed for the purpose of making improvements in house/apartment shall also fall 
under this category. 
6. Mortgage means written document evidencing the charge/transfer of interest in a property 
taken by a financier as security for its ownership interest in the asset being financed by way 
creating registered mortgage (legally compatible to stand in court of law) with the related 
registration authority. 
7. Secured means housing finance backed by tangible security with appropriate margins (in cases 
where margin has been prescribed by State Bank of Pakistan, appropriate margin shall at least 
be equal to the prescribed margin). 
8. Tangible Security under these PRs means liquid assets (as defined in the Prudential 
Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking), mortgage of land and building. 
 
 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 2 of 10 
 
Regulation HF 1: Minimum Requirements 
Before embarking upon or undertaking housing finance, the banks/DFIs shall implement/follow 
the Prudential Regulations contained in this document. 
 
1. House Financing Policy 
Banks/DFIs shall have a comprehensive house financing policy, separate or as a part of overall 
credit policy, duly approved by their Board of Directors (in case of foreign banks, Country 
Head and by Executive/Management Committee; however, if Country Head is also member of 
Executive/ Management Committee then no separate approval of his/ her is required). The 
policy shall explicitly specify the functions, responsibilities and various staff positions’ 
powers/authority relating to approval/sanction of housing financing facility.  
For every type of housing finance activity, the banks/DFIs shall develop a specific program that 
shall include the objective/quantitative parameters for the eligibility of the borrower and 
determining the maximum permissible limit per borrower. Banks/DFIs shall determine the 
housing finance limits, both in urban and rural areas, in accordance with their internal credit 
policy, credit worthiness and repayment capacity of the borrowers. Banks/DFIs should keep in 
consideration that this facility should not be used for speculative purposes and banks’/DFIs’ 
policies and other procedures should be so designed to discourage, to the extent possible, any 
speculative intent. 
2. Promotion and Development of Housing Finance 
Banks/DFIs are encouraged to develop floating, fixed and hybrid rate products for extending 
housing finance, suiting to varied needs of borrowers. Switching over from one type of rate to 
another unilaterally by the banks/DFIs to the disadvantage of customer should not be done. 
They are also encouraged to enhance housing finance outreach through increasing the areas 
and the number of branches offering housing finance particularly at small towns and cities of 
the county. Banks/DFIs shall explore the ways and means of broadening their product base 
beyond the prevalent housing finance products. For effective house financing, banks/DFIs 
shall develop strategies that will elaborate measures on improving delivery channels 
(branchless banking, tele-marketing etc.), adoption of credit scoring technology, improved 
understanding of the target market through field work and research, and putting in place 
strong marketing and sales culture. 
3. Risk Management and Internal Control Systems 
Banks/DFIs shall ensure strict compliance with laid down policies and procedures developed 
internally by them as well as those promulgated by SBP from time to time. The management 
of the banks/DFIs, under the guidance of Board of Directors, is required to establish systems, 
policies, procedures and practices to define and manage risks, stipulate responsibilities, 
specify security requirements, and design and implement internal controls. Risk management 
framework of banks/DFIs should appropriately cover housing finance.  
 
 
 
 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 3 of 10 
 
4. Development of Financing Documentation 
The banks/DFIs shall prepare standardized set of borrowing/financing and recourse 
documents (duly cleared by their legal counsels) comprising of financing agreement, 
application form and the other requisite supplementary financing documents. These 
documents should clearly spell out all the terms and conditions of housing finance. Banks/DFIs 
should provide the copies of these documents to the customers. The banks/DFIs are also 
encouraged to provide terms and conditions in Urdu language for better understanding of the 
customers. 
5. Title Documents  
Banks/DFIs shall obtain all title and ownership related property documents from customers 
and shall get these documents vetted by their legal department/advisor(s). Banks/DFIs shall 
provide a signed copy of the list of all title and property documents to the borrower. 
6. Management Information System (MIS) and Reporting 
Banks/DFIs shall ensure adequate hardware, software, logistics support and strong IT 
infrastructure for effective and efficient monitoring of housing finance portfolio. 
For effective monitoring and reporting purposes, banks/DFIs shall maintain, with respect to 
each financing transaction, necessary information/data which may include financing ID, 
original financing term, remaining term to maturity, CNIC/NTN number of the borrower, age 
of borrower, original financing balance & remaining financing balance, monthly principal & 
mark-up, benchmark, credit spread, payment frequency, mark-up rate type (fixed or floating), 
frequency of revision of mark-up rate, financing to value ratio, geographic region, appraisal 
value, appraisal date, appraiser name, property type, purpose of housing finance etc. 
In addition to above, the MIS is expected to generate the following periodical reports: 
1. Delinquency reports (for 30, 60, 90, 180 days, one year and two years and above) on 
monthly basis. 
2. Reports interrelating delinquencies with various types of customers or various 
attributes of the customers to enable the management to take important policy 
decisions and make appropriate modifications in the financing program. 
The banks/DFIs shall ensure that their accounting and computer systems are well equipped to 
avoid charging of mark-up on mark-up. For this purpose, it should be ensured that the mark-
up charged on the outstanding amount is kept separate from the principal. The banks/DFIs 
shall ensure that any repayment made by the borrowers is accounted for before applying 
mark-up on the outstanding amount. 
7. Information to Borrowers 
Banks/DFIs shall ensure that the applications for house financing are processed expeditiously 
and shall provide following information to borrowers:  
1. A true copy of the signed finance agreement(s). 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 4 of 10 
 
2. Written notification of any change in repayment schedule in line with terms of the 
agreement. 
3. Statement of accounts, on annual basis, detailing the principal repayments, principal 
outstanding, mark up/profit payments, and penalties (if any) during the year (may be 
made available on-line as well). 
All the components of fees/costs shall be explicit and transparent and shall be disclosed 
before the transaction is initiated. There should be no hidden charges. For ease of reference 
and guidance of their customers, banks/DFIs shall publish brochures on frequently asked 
questions. 
Banks/DFIs are, inter alia, encouraged to provide basic information on-line and through 
marketing material of housing finance facilities to the borrowers and regularly upgrade the 
housing finance section of their websites by providing necessary information for various stake-
holders. 
Banks/DFIs shall also provide, if requested by the borrower, additional statement(s), charges 
for which may not exceed the amount as advised by SBP from time to time for provision of 
duplicate/additional Statement of Account (SOA) to account holders. 
8. Information Disclosure 
Banks/DFIs shall clearly disclose, all the important terms, conditions, fees, charges and 
penalties, which inter-alia include annualized percentage rate, pre-payment penalties and the 
conditions under which they apply. For the purposes of this regulation, Annualized Percentage 
Rate means as follows: 
 
Mark-up for the period 
X 
360 
x 
100 
Average Outstanding Principal Amount during the period 
No. of Days 
9. Confidentiality of Information 
All information of a customer provided by him/her shall be kept confidential (even when the 
borrowers have settled their financings and no longer have relationship with the bank/DFI). 
Information of borrower can be shared credit information provider under the relevant 
provisions of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962. 
10. Credit Information 
The financing profile of all intended borrowers shall be supplemented with credit report from 
the consumer credit information bureau of State Bank of Pakistan. In addition, the banks/DFIs 
may also obtain report from any other reliable bureau. At the time of granting facility under 
various modes of housing finance, banks/DFIs shall obtain a written declaration from the 
borrower divulging details of various facilities already obtained from other banks/DFIs. 
 
 
 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 5 of 10 
 
11. Facilities to Related Persons 
The housing finance facilities extended by banks/DFIs to their Directors, major shareholders, 
employees and family members of these persons shall be at arm’s length basis and on normal 
terms & conditions applicable for routine customers of the banks/DFIs. The banks/DFIs shall 
ensure that the appraisal standards are not compromised in such cases. However, this 
condition shall not apply to the house financing allowed by the banks/DFIs to their employees 
as part of compensation package provided the detailed terms and conditions of the benefits 
which the banks/DFIs want to give to their employees are specifically mentioned in the 
Employees Service Rules/HR Policy, approved by the Board of Directors. Further, such 
consumer financing to the employees should be treated as staff financing and not as general 
consumer financing. In case of resignation/separation/termination, staff financing should be 
converted into commercial housing finance immediately. 
12. Asset Liability Mismatches 
Banks/DFIs shall prudently manage the maturity mismatches arising out of their housing 
finance portfolios. Banks/DFIs are encouraged to explore avenues to generate long-term funds 
to finance the long-term housing finance products and develop in-house system to stress test 
their housing finance portfolios against adverse movements in mark-up/profit rates and asset-
liability maturity mismatches. 
13. Capacity Building 
Capacity building programs/initiatives for all the officials attached with housing finance shall 
be held regularly to acquaint them with the systems, procedures, developments and best 
housing finance practices, prevalent within and outside Pakistan.  
14. Monitoring of Housing Finance market 
The management of banks/DFIs shall put in place a mechanism to monitor conditions in 
housing finance market at least on half-yearly basis to ensure that their policies are aligned 
with current market conditions. 
15. Verification of Property-related Documents 
Banks/DFIs shall verify necessary information provided in the application form. In addition, all 
title and other legal documents provided with application form shall be verified directly from 
the relevant issuing authorities to establish their genuineness and authenticity as per banks’ 
internal policy. Property documents shall be clear and free from all encumbrances and legal 
charges. Title documents shall explicitly contain details of ownership as per relevant 
registration authorities, area and demarcation etc. All the documents should be kept in safe 
custody and meet all procedures/requirements relating to the completion of house finance. 
16. Permission from Relevant Authorities 
The banks/DFIs shall not disburse housing finance unless ensured that prior 
permission/clearance for construction and/or approved map of house has been obtained by 
the borrower from the relevant authorities, wherever required. In case of financing for 
purchase of a house/flat, it shall be ensured that the house was constructed with prior 
permission/clearance from relevant authorities. 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 6 of 10 
 
17. Insurance/Takaful 
Banks/DFIs shall obtain comprehensive insurance/takaful coverage of the housing unit 
financed through a reputable insurance/takaful company. Banks/DFIs shall obtain insurance 
upto full value in case of apartment and upto construction cost in case of house. Further, 
banks/DFIs are allowed to obtain group insurance, life insurance or key-man insurance to 
minimize insurance cost. Further, banks/DFIs are advised to explicitly disclose the nature & 
type of insurance/takaful being obtained and rate of commission and other charges. 
18. Recovery Procedures 
Banks/DFIs should ensure that adequate procedures, systems and manpower are in place to 
efficiently handle the recovery process of default amount and successful execution and 
accomplishment of the auction proceedings wherever necessary, in accordance with the 
procedures and articles laid down in the Financial Institutions (Recovery of Finances) 
Ordinance, 2001 (FIRO-2001) and other provisions/clauses,  amendments in FIRO-2001 or any 
law/regulations in force and SBP instructions issued from time to time. 
 
Regulation HF 2: Types of Housing Finance 
Banks/DFIs may provide following types of housing finance to borrowers: 
a) Purchase, construction, renovation or extension of residential units to individuals, co-
borrowers including non-resident Pakistanis 
b) Financing for residential plots plus construction 
c) Balance transfer of existing finance facility of borrower from other banks/DFIs, subject to 
the condition that the bank/DFI where facility is transferred would not extend financing 
higher than the balance amount in the transferring bank/DFI. Further, borrower cannot 
transfer housing finance to other banks/DFIs before completion of three years with a 
bank/DFI as a mortgagee.  
Banks/DFIs shall not allow housing finance purely for the purchase of land/plots; rather, such 
financing would be extended for the purchase of land/plot and construction on it. Accordingly, the 
sanctioned financing limit, assessed on the basis of repayment capacity of the borrower, value of 
land/plot and cost of construction on it etc., shall be disbursed in tranches, i.e. upto a maximum of 
50% of the financing limit can be disbursed for the purchase of land/plot (however the amount 
disbursed for purchase of plot must not exceed the 85% of the market value/cost of land/plot), 
and the remaining amount be disbursed for construction there-upon. Further, the bank/DFI will 
take a realistic construction schedule from the borrower before allowing disbursement of the 
initial financing for construction. For construction-only cases, the sanctioned financing shall also 
be released in tranches commensurate with the stage of construction. Moreover, if an individual 
gets construction finance and there is cost overrun due to which property remains incomplete, 
banks/DFIs may entertain the customer for additional finance for completion of house, keeping in 
view the DBR and cushion in overall value (LTV). 
Further, if there is sufficient cushion available as per valid valuation/revaluation, banks/DFIs may 
consider providing additional finance for renovation or extension but not before 3 years of the last 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 7 of 10 
 
finance availed by the borrower for the same house. The requirements regarding debt burden 
ratio and loan-to-value ratio shall be duly observed while allowing such financing.  
Regulation HF 3: Debt Burden Ratio 
Total monthly amortization payments, including the housing finance under consideration and 
repayment obligations against all other consumer financings, should not exceed 50% of the net 
disposable income of the prospective borrower. In case any financing of the borrower requires 
quarterly, bi-annual or annual payments, the debt burden ratio shall be calculated by assuming 
that the financing is repaid in substantially equal monthly payments during its term. While 
calculating net disposable income, verifiable income of the borrower and repayment capacity 
should be taken into account. The income of co-borrower can be clubbed. 
 
The above measures would be in addition to banks’/DFIs’ usual evaluations of each proposal 
concerning credit worthiness of the borrowers to ensure that the banks’/DFIs’ portfolio under 
housing finance fulfills the prudential norms and instructions issued by the State Bank of Pakistan 
and does not impair the soundness and safety of the bank/DFI itself. They shall maintain record 
evidencing assessment of repayment capacity of the borrower. 
Regulation HF 4: Loan to Value Ratio 
The housing finance shall be provided at a maximum Loan to Value ratio of 85:15. 
Regulation HF 5: Limit on Exposure against Real Estate Sector 
1) The banks/DFIs shall not take exposure on the real estate sector exceeding 10% of the 
aggregate of their advances and investments (excluding investments in Government securities) at 
any point in time.  
2) For the purpose of this regulation, Real Estate Sector shall include: 
a) Individual/family owned houses for the purpose of self-occupation or renting out 
(non-commercial usage).  
b) Builders, developers, contractors, corporations, property dealers and any other 
person dealing in residential, commercial and industrial real estate, e.g., undeveloped 
land, housing societies/residential buildings, office buildings, multi-purpose commercial 
premises, hotels, shopping malls, retail space, retail store buildings, industrial space, 
factories, warehouses. 
c) Subsidiaries of (b)  
d) Debt instruments and shares issued by (b) and (c) above and units of Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REIT) issued by a REIT Management Company.  
3) In case of 2) b), such exposure shall be counted towards the above limit of 10% where the 
prospects for repayment and recovery in the event of default depend primarily on the cash flows 
generated by real estate.  
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 8 of 10 
 
4) Infrastructure Project Financing (IPF), as defined in the SBP’s guidelines for Infrastructure 
Project Financing as amended form time to time, shall not be included for calculating the above 
limit. 
 
5) With a view to promote the low cost/ low income/ affordable housing, financings under 
Government Housing Scheme and initiatives shall also be not included for calculating above limit. 
The above criterion is, however, not applicable to the specialized housing finance companies like 
House Building Finance Company Limited as their core business is extending housing finance to 
the borrowers. 
Regulation HF 6: Financing Tenure  
The banks/DFIs shall not extend housing finance for a tenure exceeding 25 years. The duly 
approved financing policy of the banks/DFIs shall define the maximum tenure keeping in view 
maturity profile of their assets and liabilities. In case the financing is rescheduled/restructured, it 
should not result in extension in total tenure beyond 25 years. 
Regulation HF 7: Property Assessment 
Banks/DFIs shall ensure that a proper property valuation is done by a valuer on approved panel of 
Pakistan Banks Association and valuation report provides banks/DFIs with an in-depth assessment 
of the property that is being offered as security. They shall determine the frequency of property 
revaluation and validity period of valuation report as per their internal requirement and get it 
approved from the top management.  
The properties valuing upto Rs. 3.0 million should not be subject to assessment by valuator. 
Banks/DFIs can use their internal resources to assess the properties having market value upto Rs. 
3.0 million. The properties valuing more than Rs. 10 million should be subject to assessment by at 
least two valuators listed on a PBA approved panel. 
Regulation HF 8: Mortgage Creation/Cancellation 
Creation of the mortgage shall be recorded with the related registration authority through 
registered mortgage (legally compatible to stand in court of law). Cancellation or 
assignment/transfer of mortgage/rights, agreed upon by both the parties in legal agreements, 
shall also be recorded with the same related registration authority by banks/DFIs. 
Further, banks/DFIs may allow rebate to/ share cost with housing finance borrowers for creation 
of registered mortgage. 
Regulation HF 9: General Reserve against Housing Finance 
Banks/DFIs shall maintain a general reserve in the following manner: 
 
Percentage of Classified Housing Finance  
to Total Housing Finance 
General Reserve (percent of Active/ 
Performing Housing Finance Portfolio) 
Below 5% 
0.5 
Below 10% 
 
1.0 
Upto and above 10% 
 
1.5 
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 9 of 10 
 
Regulation HF 10: Classification and Provisioning 
The housing finance shall be classified and provided for in the following manner: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Banks/DFIs may avail the benefit of FSV for provisioning with the condition that the profit arising 
from availing the benefit shall not be available for the payment of cash or stock dividend. 
The heads of credit of respective banks/DFIs shall ensure that FSV used for taking benefit of 
provisioning is determined accurately and is reflective of market conditions under forced sale 
situation. Any misuse of FSV benefit detected during regular/special inspection of SBP shall attract 
strict punitive action under the relevant provisions of Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962. 
Furthermore, SBP may also withdraw the benefit of FSV from banks/DFIs found involved in its 
misuse.  
 
 
Classification 
Determinant 
Treatment of Income  
Provisioning to be made 
OAEM  
 
Where mark-up or 
principal is 
overdue by 90 
days or more from 
the due date. 
 
No provisioning Required. 
Default notices to be issued to borrower. 
Substandard  
Where mark-up or 
principal is 
overdue by 180 
days or more from 
the due date. 
Unrealized mark-up to be 
kept in Memorandum 
Account and not to be 
credited to Income Account 
except when realized in cash. 
Unrealized mark-up already 
taken to income account to 
be reversed and kept in 
Memorandum Account. 
Provision of 25% of the difference resulting 
from the outstanding balance of principal 
less the amount of liquid assets realizable 
without recourse to a Court of Law and 
Forced Sale Value (FSV) of mortgaged 
properties to the extent of 75% of such 
FSV. 
Doubtful  
Where mark-up or 
principal is 
overdue by one 
year or more from 
the due date. 
As above  
Provision of 50% of the difference resulting 
from the outstanding balance of principal 
less the amount of liquid assets realizable 
without recourse to a Court of Law and 
Forced Sale Value (FSV) of mortgaged 
properties to the extent of 75% of such 
FSV. 
Loss  
Where mark-up or 
principal is 
overdue by two 
years or more 
from the due date 
As above 
Provision of 100% of the difference 
resulting from the outstanding balance of 
principal less the amount of liquid assets 
realizable without recourse to a Court of 
Law and Forced Sale Value (FSV) of 
mortgaged properties to the extent of 75% 
of such FSV for first year and 60% for 
second year and 50% of FSV for third year 
from the date of Classification. Benefit of 
FSV against NPLs shall not be available after 
3 years from the date of classification of 
financing.  
“HOUSING FINANCE PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS” 
Page 10 of 10 
 
Regulation HF 11: Rescheduling/Restructuring of Non-Performing Housing Finance 
a) Banks/DFIs shall have policy for rescheduling/restructuring of non-performing housing 
finance, which should be approved by the Board of Directors or by the Country 
Head/Executive/ Management Committee in case of branches of foreign banks. 
b) Rescheduling/restructuring should not be done just to avoid classification of financing and 
provisioning requirements. In this connection, banks/DFIs shall ensure that house financing 
facilities of any borrower should not be rescheduled/ restructured more than once within two 
years. 
c) For the purpose of rescheduling/restructuring, banks/DFIs may change the tenure of the 
financing by maximum two years beyond the original tenure agreed with the customer subject 
to maximum financing tenure of 25 years. 
d) While considering rescheduling/restructuring, banks/DFIs should, inter alia, take into account 
the repayment capacity of the borrower. The condition of 50% of Debt Burden Requirement 
(DBR) shall not be applicable to financing rescheduled/restructured. However, any new house 
financing facility extended to a borrower who is availing any rescheduled/ restructured facility 
shall be subject to observance of minimum DBR. 
e) The status of classification of the non-performing assets shall not be changed because of 
rescheduling/restructuring unless borrower has paid at least 10% of the rescheduled/ 
restructured amount (including principal and mark-up both) or six installments as per terms & 
conditions of the rescheduling/restructuring whichever is high. However, for internal 
monitoring purpose, banks/DFIs may re-set the dpd (days past due) counter of the newly 
created finance to “0” dpd. 
f) Provisions already held against non-performing financing, to be rescheduled/ restructured, 
will only be reversed if condition of 10% recovery or six installments is met. 
g) If the borrower defaults (i.e. reaches 180 dpd) again within two years after declassification, 
the financing shall be classified under the same category in which it was prior to rescheduling/ 
restructuring. Banks/DFIs, however, at their discretion may further downgrade the 
classification based on their own internal policies. 
 
************************************ 
