 
 
 
 
Prudential Regulations for 
Infrastructure Project Financing (IPF) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infrastructure, Housing & SME Finance Department 
STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN 
IPF Prudential Regulations Team 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Website address: www.sbp.org.pk 
 UAN: 111 727 111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name 
Designation 
Syed Samar Hasnain 
Executive Director 
samar.husnain@sbp.org.pk 
 
Syed Basit Aly 
Director 
basit.aly@sbp.org.pk 
 
Dr. Muhammad Saleem 
Additional Director 
saleem.zia@sbp.org.pk 
 
Mr. Zahir Saeed Sakhi 
Assistant Director 
zahir.sakhi@sbp.org.pk 
 
 
 
C O N T E N T S 
 
PART-A 
DEFINITIONS 
1-5 
PART-B 
REGULATIONS 
6-13 
IPF.1 
CREDIT APPRAISAL 
6 
IPF.1.1 
Analysis of Financial Models 
6 
IPF.1.2 
Requisite Expertise for Appraisal 
6 
IPF.1.3 
Minimum Information Requirements 
6 
IPF.1.4 
Assessment of Infrastructure Projects 
6 
IPF.1.5 
Monitoring of Infrastructure Projects 
8 
IPF.2 
COLLATERAL ARRANGEMENTS, SECURITY 
PACKAGE AND PROJECT INSURANCE 
10 
IPF.2.1 
Acceptance of Concession/License as Collateral 
10 
IPF.2.2 
Security Package 
10 
IPF.2.3 
Project Insurance/Takaful 
11 
IPF.3 
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 
12 
IPF.3.1 
Exposure Limit 
12 
IPF.3.2 
Debt-Equity 
12 
IPF.3.3 
Funding of Infrastructure Projects 
12 
IPF.3.4 
Classification and Provisioning Requirements 
13 
IPF.3.5 
Reporting of Infrastructure Finance Data 
13 
PART-C 
ANNEXURES 
14-19 
Annex A 
IPF: Checklist for Minimum Information Requirements 
14 
Annex B 
IPF: Provisioning Requirements 
16 
Annex C 
List of Abbreviations 
17 
Annex D 
IPF Data Formats 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P R E F A C E 
 
Infrastructure is the backbone for economic growth and development in a country. Availability 
of infrastructure improves investment climate leading to job creation, export competitiveness and 
uplifting of living standards. Pakistan faces acute lack of infrastructure facilities; energy, 
communication networks, water & sanitation, educational institutions and recreational facilities 
are some major infrastructure areas requiring urgent attention.  
Government of Pakistan is making all out efforts to provide state of the art infrastructure 
facilities across the country. A number of renewable energy projects are being set up by the 
Federal as well as the Provincial Governments. Similarly a number of highways and motorways 
are being built, which include both CPEC related and non CPEC related projects. Financial 
resources in infrastructure projects constitute a major component of the whole resource envelope. 
This is true universally including developed as well as developing nations.  
State Bank of Pakistan recognizing the importance of infrastructure financing in the country, 
issued Infrastructure Project Financing (IPF) Guidelines in 2005. These guidelines were then 
updated in 2010. In order to promote infrastructure financing in Pakistan, the SBP is now issuing 
Prudential Regulations (PRs) for Infrastructure Project Financing. These regulations have been 
developed on the basis of broad based internal as well as external stakeholders’ consultations. 
These PRs for IPF draw strength from financial sector’s experiences and SBP’s forward looking 
approach in this area. 
These Prudential Regulations place emphasis on important features of infrastructure project 
finance which will facilitate the banks and DFIs to assess the cash flow generating capacity of 
the projects like the requirement of technical feasibility, comprehensive risk assessment, project 
insurance, technical monitoring of the project during loan tenure and requirement of supply and 
off-take agreements. It is hoped that these features of the Regulations will help banks and DFIs 
to develop expertise for financing of infrastructure projects, essentially by evaluating the 
intrinsic cash flow generating ability of these projects.  
It is also pertinent to mention here that these Regulations do take in to account environmental 
impact of infrastructure projects. The banks/DFIs are advised to consider environmental 
externalities in infrastructure projects along with other technical, legal and regulatory aspects. 
 
 
 
Banks/DFIs are encouraged to prepare their own structured lending schemes for the development 
of IPF. For this purpose, banks/DFIs may commission their own studies to determine the 
potential in specific infrastructure projects. Besides conventional infrastructure financing, 
banks/DFIs are also encouraged to adopt Islamic mode of banking to develop infrastructure 
products as it is very conducive to infrastructure financing. In developing Islamic financing 
products for infrastructure, the banks/DFIs should refer to relevant instructions issued by Islamic 
Banking Department of SBP. Furthermore, Islamic Banking Institutions may convert 
conventional IPF terms in context of Islamic banking practices wherever deemed necessary. 
The IPF Prudential Regulations do not supersede other directives and instructions issued by SBP 
from time to time in respect of areas not covered here.  The IPF Prudential Regulations cover 
issues relating to risk management of infrastructure project financing only. However, the relevant 
sections covering categories viz. corporate governance (G), anti money laundering (M), and 
operations (O), as mentioned in Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking shall 
be applied, wherever applicable. Any deviation or non-compliance shall attract punitive action 
under the relevant provisions of the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962. 
 
Director 
Infrastructure, Housing & SME Finance Department 
30 December 2016 
 
1 
Prudential Regulations 
for Infrastructure Project Financing 
PART- A 
D E F I N I T I O N S 
 
1.  Asset Securitization means a process whereby any Special Purpose Vehicle raises 
funds through the issue of Term Finance Certificates or any other instruments 
with the approval of Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP). 
The funds so received are used to make payment to the Originator, for acquiring 
from the Originator the title, property or right in the receivables or other assets in 
the form of actionable claims. Originator in this context has the same meaning as 
explained 
in 
BPD 
Circular 
No. 
31 
of 
November 
14, 
2002 
http://www.sbp.org.pk/bpd/2002/C31.htm. 
2.  Bank as defined in Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking. 
3. Borrower means Concessionaire/Licensee/Project Company of an Infrastructure 
Project, including a public sector entity, on whom the bank(s)/DFI(s) has/have 
taken exposure during the course of business, including their successor(s). 
4.   Concession Agreement means an agreement, usually with the government authority, 
to operate the project or to provide the specified services for a certain period of 
time on certain predetermined terms.  
5. Concessionaire/Licensee means a legal entity, incorporated by sponsors of an 
Infrastructure Project, to whom a Concession/License is awarded by a 
government agency, including their successor(s) in the titles and assignments.  
6. Contractor(s) means the entities which may be awarded the contract for 
construction, supply of materials, operation, maintenance and other allied works of 
an Infrastructure Project by the Concessionaire/Licensee/Project Company.  
7. Debt Payment Account means an account created for the period of financing 
provided 
by 
the 
Lenders 
that 
shall 
be 
funded 
by 
the 
Concessionaire/Licensee/Project Company as per the Financing Agreement(s) 
from the Project Account(s) and/or the Project Collection Account to amortize debt.  
8.  DFI as defined in Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial Banking. 
9. Equity of the Bank/DFI as 
defined in 
Prudential 
Regulations 
for 
Corporate/Commercial Banking. 
 
 
2 
10. Exposure as defined in Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial 
Banking. 
11. Financing Agreement(s) mean(s) the agreement(s) entered into between the 
Concessionaire/Licensee/Project Company/Sponsors and the Lenders, for the purpose 
of providing the fund-based and non-fund based facilities necessary to carry out the 
Infrastructure Project, and will also include all other agreements/documents providing 
security for such financing.  
12. Financial Close means the stage at which financing agreement(s) has/have been 
executed and conditions precedent in them have been satisfied/waived/deferred. 
Subsequently, funding becomes available to the project and facilities are ready to be 
disbursed on agreed terms and conditions. 
13. Financial Completion means fulfillment of any one or more of the conditions listed 
below:  
a. 
The project’s ability to produce below a certain unit cost that is 
agreed beforehand by the concerned parties.  
b. 
Produce a minimum volume, output or level of performance above a 
certain level.  
c. 
Show compliance with any similar conditionality for a specified 
period of time.  
d. 
Have a minimum level of working capital and a certain current ratio.  
e. 
Achieve a minimum debt-service coverage ratio and debt-to-equity 
ratio for a certain period and any other conditions set as per the 
Financing Agreement(s).  
14. Financial Covenants mean legal undertakings of  the borrower to adhere to certain 
limits in its operations and financial performance as specified in the Financing 
Agreement(s). For example, not to allow certain balance sheet items or ratios ( the 
debt-service coverage ratio etc.) to fall below or go over an agreed-upon limit. 
15. Government Agency means:  
(a) A division, department, attached department, bureau, section, 
commission, board, office or unit of the Federal Government or a 
Provincial Government or a Local Government; 
(b) A development or a local authority, company or corporation 
established or controlled by the Federal Government or Provincial 
Government. 
16. Islamic Banking Institutions mean Islamic commercial banks, Islamic banking      
subsidiaries and Islamic banking branches of conventional banks, licensed by State 
Bank of Pakistan.  
 
3 
17. Infrastructure Project Financing (IPF) means either limited recourse or non-
recourse financing for an Infrastructure Project as mentioned in table below, which 
includes both fund-based and non fund-based facilities. Projects being financed under 
modes of financing other than project finance shall not be governed under Prudential 
Regulations for IPF. 
S. 
No. 
Infrastructure Sectors 
Infrastructure Projects 
A.  
Transport 
i. Roads, Flyovers and Bridges 
ii. Mass Transit, Urban Bus, Urban Rail 
iii. Rail-Bed, Stations System, Rail Freight, Passenger 
Services, Tunnels, Bridges etc 
iv. Ports, Channel Dredging, Shipping, Container 
Terminals 
v. Inland Waterways 
vi. Airports 
 
B.  
Power 
i. Power Generation 
ii. Power Transmission 
iii. Power Distribution 
 
C.  
Energy 
i. Natural Gas Exploration and Distribution 
ii. LPG Extraction, Terminal, Distribution and Marketing 
iii. LNG Terminal, Distribution and Marketing 
iv. Petroleum Extraction, Refinery and Pipeline 
v. Oil/Gas/LNG Storage Facility 
vi. Energy Efficiency and Conservation 
vii.  Coal Mining 
 
D.  
Telecommunication 
A Telecommunication Local Services, Long Distance and 
Towers 
E.  
Water & Sanitation 
i. Dams, Barrages and Canals 
ii. Water Supply Pipelines 
iii. Irrigation System & Network 
iv. Water Treatment System 
v. Sewage Collection, Disposal & Treatment System 
vi. Solid Waste Management 
 
F.  
Social, Cultural & 
Commercial 
Infrastructure  
i. Educational & Training Institutes 
ii. Hospitals, Training Institutes, Diagnostic Centers 
iii. Public Parks, Recreational Facilities 
iv. Tourism related Facilities like Hotels 
v. Industrial Parks and Special Economic Zones (SEZ) 
vi. Warehouses, Cold Storage  
vii.  Housing Projects 
G.  
Any Other 
Any other infrastructure project in consultation with SBP 
 
4 
18. Lender means a bank/DFI taking exposure on the Concessionaire/Licensee/Project 
Company and their successors. The term ‘Lender’ shall also include a consortium of 
lenders, a trustee, or a security agent appointed by the lenders.  
19. License means a permission granted by a government or private entity to a company 
sponsor for undertaking an Infrastructure Project. 
20. Limited-Recourse Financing means a form of financing in which the lenders base 
their credit decision primarily on the cash flows of the borrower/project company. In 
addition, the security package may give lenders legal recourse against the sponsor 
and/or its assets.  
21. Liquid Assets as defined in Prudential Regulations for Corporate/Commercial 
Banking. 
22. Local Authority means any agency set up or designated by Federal Government or 
Provincial Government, by notification in the official Gazette, to be a Local Authority.  
23. Non-recourse Financing means a form of project financing in which the lenders 
base their credit decisions solely on the cash flows of the project for repayment of the 
project debt. Such recourse is opted where the project is fully capable of generating 
sufficient cash flows to repay the project debt, even under adverse conditions.  
24. Physical Completion means the project’s ability to sustain production/services at a 
certain capacity for a specified period of time, such as one month or one quarter 
of an operating year. Before this, the project may also be certified as technically 
complete, i.e. meeting all technical design specification.  
25. Project Account(s) mean(s) one or more account(s) for the purpose of depositing 
contributions towards the equity of the Concessionaire/Licensee/Project Company 
and the disbursement of loans by the Lenders through a ‘cash waterfall’ mechanism 
under the Financing Agreement(s). The Project Account(s) can also be utilized for 
depositing surplus receipts after appropriations for debt servicing, project 
maintenance and any other appropriations as per the Financing Agreement(s) from 
the Project Collection Account. Moreover, all receipts and expenditure made with 
respect 
to 
the 
due 
performance 
of 
its 
obligation 
by 
the 
Concessionaire/Licensee/Project Company shall be through such Project Account(s).  
26. Project Capital Cost means the total construction/completion costs of a project on 
an un-leveraged (all-equity) basis, which includes project development cost, land, 
owners’ costs of construction, and initial working capital.  
27. Project Collection Account means an account opened for the exclusive collection 
of all revenue receipt of an Infrastructure Project that shall be operated by the 
 
5 
Concessionaire/Licensee/Project 
Company 
in 
accordance 
with 
Financing 
Agreement(s) with the lenders.  
28. Project Company means the legal entity, registered with SECP under relevant laws, 
which owns and/or operates a project.  
29. Project Finance means a form of ‘Non-recourse’ or ‘Limited Recourse’ financing, 
where the lenders base their credit decision solely or primarily on the cash flows of 
the project, with respect to repayment of the project debts.  
30. Project Cost means the total financing (debt and equity) required to complete 
construction of a project. It includes development cost, advisory fee, insurance fee, 
capital costs, financing fee, interest that accumulates during the construction period, 
and any amounts (financing plan contingencies) set aside to pay for cost overruns or  
debt servicing in case of any delays, lower than anticipated  project revenues including 
possible force majeure event. 
31. Project Funds Agreement (PFA) means an agreement, usually by sponsors, to 
provide additional funds as needed until completion of the project, or at any other 
agreed date. However, burden of additional funds may be shared amongst 
sponsors, creditors and suppliers as per their mutual consent under a PFA.  
32. Project Sponsor(s) mean(s) the primary developer(s) and proponent(s) of a project, or 
a party providing the major owner’s equity financing.  
33. Public Utilities mean water supply, electricity supply, telecommunication system, 
sewerage system, petroleum, gas supply and other utilities and amenities for the 
benefit of the public.  
34. Right of Way means the existing corridor already available with a government 
agency and any additional land which may have to be acquired by a government 
agency for the purpose of the Infrastructure Project.  
35. Special Purpose Vehicle means a special purpose vehicle registered with the SECP 
for the purpose of Securitization. 
36. Subordinated Loan means an unsecured loan extended to the borrower, generally 
by its sponsors, subordinate to the claim of the bank/DFI taking exposure on the 
borrower, and documented by a formal sub-ordination agreement between 
provider of the loan and the bank/DFI. The loan shall be disclosed in the annual 
audited financial statements of the borrower as subordinated loan. 
37. Term Sheet means a document that outlines the terms and conditions of the 
financing facility. A term sheet is issued by a bank/syndicate prior to formal 
signing of Financing Agreement(s). 
 
6 
PART - B 
REGULATIONS 
IPF.1 -- CREDIT APPRAISAL  
A thorough credit appraisal of an IPF shall be carried out in order to identify and 
mitigate the project risks, and to ascertain that the project will function as per plans. 
Assessment of the technical, financial and economic viability of the project shall also be 
carried out to determine adequacy of the project cash flows. Furthermore, banks/DFIs 
shall thoroughly review and assess the validity of assumptions on which cash flow 
projections have been made to repay project debt and meet its obligations under the 
Financing Agreement(s) 
IPF.1.1 -- Analysis of Financial Model(s)  
Banks/DFIs shall comprehensively evaluate the financial model(s), prepared in-
house or provided by financial advisor/Project Company, at the time of due 
diligence to create project forecasts and conduct scenarios & sensitivity analysis. 
Banks/DFIs shall use this model(s) after financial close to update for changes in 
various assumptions so as to look for early warning signals with respect to any 
overruns that may be expected in the project cost.  
IPF.1.2 -- Requisite Expertise for Appraisal 
Banks/DFIs, which are involved in IPF, shall develop the requisite expertise (human 
resources, IT system etc.) to conduct a thorough appraisal of the proposed project in 
consultation with the technical, legal, insurance, financial and environment advisors (as 
the case may be).  
IPF.1.3 -- Minimum Information Requirements  
Banks/DFIs, shall obtain and evaluate detailed due diligence of the proposed project which 
may include reports from financial, technical, legal, insurance and environment advisors. 
The financial feasibility, if required, may be endorsed by an auditing firm on the approved 
panel of SBP. The banks/DFIs shall get the technical feasibility report independently 
reviewed by their technical advisor, which can be an engineering firm of repute registered 
with concerned authority in Pakistan or internationally. 
Moreover, banks/DFIs shall also obtain minimum information to their satisfaction regarding 
the proposed Infrastructure Project in accordance with Annex-A (IPF: Checklist for 
Minimum Information Requirements). Banks/DFIs should get the project documents, as 
specified in section 6 of Annexure A, vetted by a legal counsel or syndicate legal counsel. 
IPF.1.4 -- Assessment of Infrastructure Projects  
Infrastructure Projects usually go through development, construction, start-up, and 
operation stages. Banks/DFIs shall, therefore, assess these stages separately for risk 
mitigation purpose. While some of the Regulations in this regard are given as under; 
however, banks/DFIs may put in place additional safeguard measures as per their own 
 
7 
credit and risk framework. 
IPF.1.4.1 Development Phase: The funding needs during this phase should be met 
primarily through capital from the sponsor(s). However, at the stage of financial 
closure, the Financing Agreement(s) should have a clause where Project 
Company/borrower is covered that lenders will perform as per Financing 
Agreement(s) as long as all covenants are being met by the Project 
Company/borrower. 
IPF.1.4.2 Construction and Start-up Phase: Banks/DFIs shall adequately 
safeguard their interests from major risks arising from, but not limited to, 
construction delays, cost overruns, technical design flaws, changes in 
government regulations etc and stress upon the provision of risk assessment and 
allocation matrix/report. Banks/DFIs shall also hedge identified and potential 
risks by opting for fixed-price (where applicable), date certain construction 
contracts (including turnkey contracts), and built-in provisions for liquidated 
damages if the contractor fails to perform, along with obtaining insurance cover 
for certain areas of the project or any other measure necessary to mitigate the 
following risks: 
a. Responsibility of Assuming Completion Risk: Banks/DFIs shall properly 
assess and negotiate risks arising during completion phase of the project with 
the sponsors. All such risks shall be the responsibility of the project company, 
its sponsors, contractors, suppliers and insurers (as the case may be).  
b. Physical and Financial Completion of Infrastructure Projects: To protect 
against the risk of physical and financial non-completion of the Infrastructure 
Project, banks/DFIs are advised to closely observe following issues for risk 
mitigation: 
i. Project Funds Agreement (PFA): To ensure that unexpected costs do not 
jeopardize the project’s completion, creditors and sponsors may have a 
commitment for standby financing as part of the initial financial package. This 
may be provided by sponsors through a contractual agreement, i.e. Project 
Funds Agreement (PFA), which is a standby subordinated loan or equity, 
wherein sponsors may either provide or arrange the requisite funds.  
ii. Financial Completion Agreement (FCA): It is pertinent to emphasize that a 
new project may reach physical completion but may not become self-sustaining 
for a number of reasons, such as supply problems, weak market demand or other 
adverse changes in micro or macroeconomic conditions. If financial completion is 
not achieved, profitability will suffer, and the project is likely to encounter debt-
servicing difficulties. Project documentations, therefore, may include a Financial 
Completion Agreement (FCA), which specifies, in contract form, the initial 
financial projections of the project against which creditors and investors are 
 
8 
willing to invest funds. Under FCA, the sponsors typically commit to provide 
subordinated loans or additional equity to the project until the agreed 
financial performance is achieved. By requiring sponsors to ensure project 
financial completion, lenders greatly reduce the default risk of the project. The  
lenders may, at their own discretion, require the sponsors to arrange suitable  
insurance cover, if available, for covering such risk. 
iii. Exposure without Financial Closure: No bank/DFI should take any exposure 
until satisfying themselves that financial close has been achieved. 
iv. Insurance: To ensure fulfillment of obligations by the sponsors, their obligations 
under PFA/FCA may be backed-up by a letter of credit, bond or guarantee from a 
creditworthy third party. However, for mitigating force majeure that cannot be 
contractually allocated, banks/DFIs are advised to call for purchase of insurance 
cover, wherever possible, by the sponsors, so as to mitigate both direct and 
indirect types of force majeure.  
IPF.1.4.3 Operation Phase: Financing for infrastructure project is long term  in 
nature, therefore, banks/ DFIs shall assess all risk associated with the operation phase 
of the project like smooth availability of working capital, availability & cost of inputs 
and market demand for the project’s products/services etc.  
a. Banks/DFIs may stress upon the sponsors to undertake long-term purchase 
contracts for important inputs and long term off-take contracts for project 
outputs (where applicable) so that the impact of price volatility and adverse 
market demand is minimized.  
b. Banks/DFIs may require the Project Company to obtain performance 
guarantees on technical components and other necessary inputs from its 
contractors/suppliers.  
c. Banks/DFIs may encourage the Project Company to enter into operation and 
maintenance agreement (wherever appropriate) for initial years of operation. 
d. During operation phase, banks/DFIs may also encourage the Project Company 
to get their infrastructure project rated by a credit rating agency on the approved 
panel of State Bank of Pakistan.  
IPF.1.5 -- Monitoring of Infrastructure Projects  
Banks/DFIs shall establish a mechanism for continuous monitoring of project 
implementation to ensure proper utilization of the credit disbursed to the company. For 
this purpose, proper scrutiny/audit shall be undertaken of the Project Account(s), 
Project Collection Account, Debt Payment Account, and any other accounts deemed 
necessary for the operation of the project. Moreover, compliance with financial covenants 
and periodical technical inspection of the project during construction phase shall also be 
ensured. 
 
 
9 
IPF.1.5.1 Monitoring for Assignment of Project Receivables and Payments for 
Damages: In infrastructure project financing, the primary source of repayment is 
project cash flows, therefore, lenders need to secure the loan by obtaining an 
assignment of project receivables. For this purpose, lenders may also opt for 
registering a charge on receivables and seeking acknowledged assignment of 
project receivables from the employers/sponsors, depending on advice from 
their/syndicate’s legal advisor. To mitigate adverse impact from premature 
termination of important agreements such as government concession, management, 
O&M, supply contracts etc, banks/DFIs shall institute necessary monitoring measure 
so as to ensure that the assignment of project receivables and payments on account 
of damages are made in their favor.  
IPF.1.5.2 Monitoring for Ensuring Enforcement of Security: To ensure the 
protection of bank’s charge on assets of the Project Company, banks/DFIs will 
register their charge with the Registrar of Companies, so that the security is not 
mortgaged with any other lending institution for further financing. 
IPF.1.5.3 Project Account(s) for Monitoring Repayment of Debt: Banks/DFIs 
shall institute a mechanism for repayment of project debts through Project 
Account(s), which shall be assigned in favor of the lenders without any conflicting 
interests.  
IPF.1.5.4 Financial Covenants for Repayment of Debt: In order to ensure that 
dividend payments to project investors and/or other discretionary payments, not 
including payments necessary for operation of the Project Company, do not restrict 
or curtail the ability of Project Company to meet its debt service obligations, 
banks/DFIs shall require the Project Company to observe financial covenants 
including debt service coverage ratio, loan life coverage ratio etc during 
construction and operation phase of the project. 
IPF.1.5.5 Technical monitoring during Construction and Operation Phase: 
During construction phase, banks/ DFIs shall monitor project’s progress through 
periodical review by technical consultant. The scope of technical consultant should 
include assessment of actual progress of the project against the scheduled progress 
and agreed milestones, review of status of engineering, procurement, construction 
and commissioning activities and identification of bottlenecks arising or likely to 
arise in the project completion. All draw downs pertaining to EPC/non-EPC 
contracts may be linked with certification by technical consultant. 
To safeguard their interests, banks/DFIs may have periodic technical inspection of 
the project from the technical advisor on need basis to monitor the technical health 
of project during the loan tenure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
IPF.2 -- COLLATERAL ARRANGEMENTS, SECURITY PACKAGE  
AND PROJECT INSURANCE  
IPF.2.1 -- Acceptance of Concession/License as Collateral  
In order to promote Infrastructure Project Financing, banks/DFIs are encouraged to accept 
a ‘Concession Agreement/License’ issued by a Government Agency as collateral, as part 
of the overall collateral arrangements, subject to the following stipulations:  
a. 
The Concession Agreement/License is free of all encumbrances, is irrevocable, and 
does not contain any terms or conditions which may be detrimental to the interest of 
the lenders;  
b. 
The Concession Agreement/License should be assignable to lenders in the event of 
default (where applicable);  
c. 
The Government Agency that has issued the Concession Agreement/License 
undertakes to facilitate lenders in the transfer of Concession Agreement/License 
in case of default;  
d. 
Public utilities are provided appropriately in the area (where applicable) by 
the Government or by the concerned authorities;  
e. 
Banks/DFIs have satisfied themselves about the secured nature of Concession 
Agreement/License, the expected source of repayment and the overall collateral 
arrangements. 
IPF.2.2 -- Security Package  
In order to observe prudence, while undertaking Infrastructure Project Financing, 
banks/DFIs shall secure their interest by Primary Security/Collateral, besides either 
one or a combination of the Secondary Securities/Collateral (as applicable), the details of 
which are as under:  
IPF.2.2.1 Primary Security/Collateral: First charge on all the receivables and 
Project Account(s), Project Collection Account, Debt Payment Account, Bank 
Accounts, including offshore accounts maintained by the Project Company. 
IPF.2.2.2 Secondary Securities/Collateral 
a. 
First Charge over all the immovable and movable assets of the project  
company  and  that  of  the  contractors  if  deemed necessary by the 
lender; 
b. 
First assignment of all insurance policies to cover major and minor 
risks, including force-majeure (if applicable);  
c. 
First pledge of sponsors’ share in the company, besides ensuring that 
sponsor’s holding does not fall below  51% of equity capital without 
prior approval of the lender(s);  
d. 
First assignment by way of security of all government approvals and 
agreements, the implementation agreement and the government 
undertaking;  
 
11 
e. 
First  assignment by way of security of the company’s rights under 
project agreements, such as project funds agreements, retention account 
agreement, shareholders agreement, supply agreement and off-take 
agreement, EPC and O&M contracts where applicable. 
f. 
First charge/assignment of corporate/bank guarantees furnished  by 
the 
contractors to the project company for claiming liquidated damages. 
g. 
Any other security as deemed appropriate by the bank/DFI for financing. 
IPF.2.3 -- Project Insurance/Takaful: 
Banks/ DFIs, while taking an exposure on infrastructure projects, shall ensure that the 
Project Company has obtained, or made arrangement to obtain, valid and enforceable 
insurance coverage/takaful for potential risks associated with infrastructure projects 
including, where applicable, but not limited to, physical loss or damage to project’s assets 
during construction- CAR (Contractor’s All Risks), liability to third parties (public liability), 
loss or damage to assets during transportation (marine), machinery breakdown, loss of profit 
and terrorism etc. Lenders may also seek advice from their insurance advisors, where 
applicable, to determine the risks for which insurance/ takaful will be required. 
 
 
 
12 
IPF.3 -- REGULATORY COMPLIANCE  
Banks/DFIs shall adhere to the following regulatory measures for financing to 
Infrastructure Projects. However, those regulatory issues that are not covered in these 
Regulations will continue to be governed by the Prudential Regulations for 
Corporate/Commercial Banking.  
IPF.3.1 -- Exposure Limits  
IPF.3.1.1 Per Party Exposure Limits  
Exposure limits for a single obligor and obligor group shall be calculated in the manner 
as described in Regulation R-1 and Annexure I of Prudential Regulations for 
Corporate/Commercial Banking. However, Board of banks/DFIs may allow for an 
additional 5 percent exposure of the bank/DFI’s equity (for single obligor and obligor 
group) in case of financing for Infrastructure Projects as defined at para 17 above. 
Banks/DFIs shall lay down a Board approved policy in this regard. 
IPF.3.1.2 Sectoral Exposure 
Banks/DFIs are encouraged to diversify their exposure to different Infrastructure 
Sectors to ensure risk diversification and equitable development of other sectors. 
IPF.3.2 -- Debt-Equity  
Banks/DFIs shall prescribe a maximum ratio between borrower’s equity and its total 
financing facilities from all financial institutions. This debt-equity ratio shall be part of 
a bank/DFI’s credit policy approved by their Board of Directors. The credit policy shall 
emphasize upon higher credit standards and provide full guidance to the management 
about the above requirements for various categories of clients and corresponding risk 
mitigates etc. acceptable to the bank/DFI. The policy shall also have explicit provisions 
for circumstances or conditions under which the bank/DFI may extend financing 
facilities that are in breach of these limits, should the bank/DFI decide to do so. The 
policy shall clearly provide approving authorities that would be responsible to allow 
exemptions in accordance with the policy. All such exceptions allowed shall be 
reported to the Board of Directors at least on quarterly basis. 
 
IPF.3.3 -- Funding of Infrastructure Projects 
IPF.3.3.1 Maximum Duration of Loan: Banks/DFIs may extend loans for IPF up to 
a maximum period of 20 years, excluding grace period, if any.  
IPF.3.3.2 Asset Liability Management: Banks/DFIs, following Basel III 
requirements are encouraged to develop an in-house system for prudently managing 
interest rate risk and liquidity risk arising from locking their assets in long term 
IPF undertakings. Banks/DFIs may either enter into a refinancing/sell-down 
financing arrangement with other banks/DFIs or arrange consortium/syndicate to 
effectively match their assets and liabilities.  
 
13 
IPF.3.3.3 Long Term Funding:  As a measure of Asset Liability Management 
(ALM), banks/DFIs are also encouraged to float Infrastructure Bonds/Green 
Bonds/Sukuk to match the tenure of infrastructure loans, besides securitization/sell 
down/refinancing. Banks/DFIs are allowed to securitize their assets pertaining to 
Infrastructure Projects defined at para 17, Part A of these Regulations.  
IPF.3.4 -- Classification and Provisioning Requirements  
The banks/DFIs shall classify and make provisioning for IPF as per provision 
requirements illustrated at Annex B. In addition to the time-based criteria prescribed 
at Annex B, subjective evaluation of performing and non-performing credit portfolio 
shall be made for risk assessment. However, if deemed necessary, any account 
including the performing account will be classified, and the category of 
classification determined on the basis of time based criteria shall be further 
downgraded. Such evaluation shall be carried out on the basis of credit worthiness 
of the borrower, cash flows, operation in the account, adequacy of the security, 
inclusive of its realizable value and documentation covering the advances. 
IPF.3.4.1 Banks/DFIs shall refer to the relevant clauses of Prudential Regulations 
for Corporate/Commercial Banking for the purpose of calculations for forced 
sale value benefits, restructuring and rescheduling and timing of creating 
provisions and reversal of provision. 
IPF.3.5 -- Reporting of Infrastructure Finance Data 
Banks/DFIs shall continue to report data on infrastructure financing, on quarterly basis, as 
per existing practice. However, distinction should be made between infrastructure financing 
provided through project finance mode or other modes (e.g. corporate finance etc). Data 
format sheets for IPF reporting are placed at Annex D.  
 
 
 
 
14 
ANNEX A  
IPF: CHECKLIST FOR MINIMUM INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS 
 
1. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
i) 
Description of Product/ Service 
ii) 
Capacity of Project (as applicable) 
iii) 
Proposed ownership structure and sponsor(s) information 
iv) 
Legal status of project and status of government approvals, exemptions/advantages 
to be availed by the Project, licenses and permissions required and proposed 
measures/actions that could affect the Project. 
v) 
Consultant due diligence reports (construction arrangements, market survey etc)  
vi) 
Project’s anticipated economic contributions (e.g. in the generation of foreign 
exchange, employment, technology transfer etc.) 
 
2. 
CAPITAL INVESTMENT 
i) 
Project site (related legal agreements for land use rights/ownership etc) 
ii) 
Project development costs 
iii) 
Civil works and buildings costs 
iv) 
Major and auxiliary equipments 
v) 
Project management mechanism 
vi) 
Pre-operating requirements and costs 
vii) Contingencies (physical) and escalations (financial) 
viii) Initial working capital requirements 
ix) 
Contracting and purchasing procedures to be used 
x) 
Local/foreign manpower and technical expertise required at the planning stage 
 
3. 
PROJECT SCHEDULES 
i) 
Construction, startup, operations 
ii) 
Expenditures 
iii) 
Funding (including   timing   of   funds   needed   during   project implementation) 
iv) 
Regulatory compliance 
 
4. 
ENVIRONMENT IMPACT 
i) 
Description of environment impact 
ii) 
Health and safety issues 
iii) 
IEE and EIA as required under Environmental Laws 
iv) 
NOC from respective Federal/Provincial Environment Protection Agency. 
 
5. 
FINANCING 
i) 
Total cost of project (including details on major items of fixed assets and working 
capital) 
 
15 
ii) 
Brief profile of sponsor(s) and participant(s), showing their nature of current business 
interests, financial capacity or other interest in the project construction, 
operations, and marketing  
iii) 
Capital structure 
a. 
Proposed debt/equity structure  
b. 
Equity  
o Shareholder structure  
o Long term plans (stay private/go public)  
o Quasi-equity (subordinated debt)  
c. 
Debt  
o Long-term debt/working capital loan 
o Domestic/foreign  
o Desired terms and conditions  
o Funding sources already identified  
d. 
Contingencies: overrun/standby arrangements  
iv) 
Financial Projections 
a. 
Projected financial statements including cash flows  
b. 
Clear statement of all assumptions  
c. 
Sensitivity analyses under different scenarios like completion delay, low 
demand volume, low tariff, interest rate risk etc.  
d. 
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR, annual and loan-life), Net Present 
Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Payback Period of the 
project, Return on Equity (ROE) etc. 
 
6. 
LEGAL DOCUMENTATION 
i) 
Joint venture agreements (if applicable) 
ii) 
Articles of association 
iii) 
Government approval documents/concession/business license 
iv) 
Land certificate/red line map 
v) 
Mortgages, if any 
vi) 
Loan agreements 
vii) Major contracts including (as the case may be) 
a. 
EPC/ Non-EPC Contract 
b. 
Off-take agreements  
c. 
Supply agreements  
d. 
Technical assistance agreement on need basis 
e. 
Operation and Maintenance agreement  
f. 
Insurance Policies 
 
 
 
16 
ANNEX B 
IPF: PROVISIONING REQUIREMENTS 
Classifica
tion 
Determinant 
Treatment of Income  
Provisioning to be made 
OAEM  
 
Where mark-up/ 
interest or principal 
is overdue by 90 
days or more from 
the due date. 
 
No provisioning Required. 
Default notices to be issued to 
borrower/sponsors. 
Substanda
rd  
Where mark-up/ 
interest or principal 
is overdue by 180 
days or more from 
the due date. 
Unrealized mark-up/ 
interest to be kept in 
Memorandum Account 
and not to be credited to 
Income Account except 
when realized in cash. 
Unrealized mark-up/ 
interest already taken to 
income account to be 
reversed and kept in 
Memorandum Account. 
Provision of 25% of the difference 
resulting from the outstanding balance of 
principal less the amount of liquid assets 
realizable without recourse to a Court of 
Law and Forced Sale Value (FSV) of 
pledged stocks, plant & machinery under 
charge, and mortgaged residential, 
commercial & industrial properties (land 
& building only) to the extent allowed in 
Regulation R-8 of Prudential 
Regulations for Corporate/Commercial 
Banking.  
Doubtful  
Where mark-up or 
principal is overdue 
by one year or more 
from the due date. 
As above  
Provision of 50% of the difference 
resulting from the outstanding balance of 
principal less the amount of liquid assets 
realizable without recourse to a Court of 
Law and FSV of pledged stocks, plant & 
machinery under charge, and 
mortgaged residential, commercial & 
industrial properties (land & building 
only) to the extent allowed in the 
Regulation  R-8 of Prudential 
Regulations for Corporate/ Commercial 
Banking 
Loss  
Where mark-up or 
principal is overdue 
by two years or 
more from the due 
date 
As above 
Provision of 100% of the difference 
resulting from the outstanding balance of 
principal less the amount of liquid assets 
realizable without 
recourse to a Court of Law and FSV of 
pledged stocks, plant & machinery under 
charge, and 
mortgaged residential, commercial & 
industrial properties (land & building 
only) to the extent allowed in the 
Regulation  R-8 of Prudential 
Regulations for Corporate/ Commercial 
Banking 
 
17 
ANNEX C 
List of Abbreviations 
 
ALM          
Asset Liability Management 
BPD 
Banking Policy Department, State Bank of Pakistan now Banking 
Policy and Regulations Department 
CAR          
Contractor’s All Risk 
COI  
Certificate of Investment 
DFI  
Development Finance Institution 
EPC           
Engineering, Procurement and Construction 
EIA 
Environment Impact Assessment 
FCA           
Financial Completion Agreement 
IEE 
Initial Environment Examination 
IPF 
Infrastructure Project Finance/ing 
LPG 
Liquefied Petroleum Gas 
LNG 
Liquefied Natural Gas 
NBFC        
Non-Banking Financial Company 
NIT 
National Investment Trust 
NOC 
No Objection Certificate 
NPV           
Net Present Value 
OAEM 
Other Assets Especially Mentioned 
O & M        
Operation and Maintenance 
PFA            
Project Funds Agreement 
SPV 
Special Purpose Vehicle 
SECP 
Securities & Exchange Commission of Pakistan 
SBP 
State Bank of Pakistan 
TFC           
Term Finance Certificate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
Funded
Non - Funded
Total
1
2
3
Total
* Category of the Project as per para 18 part A of the Prudential Regulations for Infrastructure Project Financing
**Please specify whether it is Project Finance/Corporate Finanace/Bonds/TFC other etc 
*** Please indicate exposure as percentage of bank/DFI equity. Refer to Regulation IPF.3.1.1 of Prudential Regulations for Infrastructure Project Financing
**** If floating please state applicable base rate + margins
Name of the Bank: 
Current Status 
 Initial Service 
Charges 
S.No.
Name of Project (Please 
Specify)
* Category
Amount Sanctioned
Cumulative Amount 
Disbursed  
(Excluding Running 
Finance)
Amount 
Outstanding 
(Excluding 
Running Finance
**Mode of 
Financing
8
 Interest 
Rate**** 
Quarterly Report on Infrastructure Project Financing (IPF) for the Quarter Ended :
(Amount in Million)
Amount Disbursed 
During Quarter 
(Excluding Running 
Finance)
Amount 
Outstanding 
against Running 
Finance
Sanctioned in 
the Year
Loan Tenure
Exposure***
ANNEX D 
Infrastructure Project Finance Data Format 
IPF-I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
IPF-II 
 
 
IPF-III 
 
1
2
3
Total
* Category of the Project as per para 18 part A of the Prudential Regulations for Infrastructure Project Financing
** Please specify whether it Project Finance/Corporate Finanace/Bonds/TFC other etc
*** If floating please state applicable base rate + margins
Any New Project for the Quarter End
Name of the Bank/DFI :
S.No.
Name of Project 
* Category
*** Interest 
rate
Description of Project
Capacity (If 
applicable)
Estimated 
Project Cost
Detail of 
Syndicate
Financing 
Structure
Debt/Equity 
Ratio
** Mode of 
Financing
Security against 
Loan
Loan Tenure
1
Transport
2
Power
3
Energy
4
Telecommunication
5
Water & Sanitation
6
Social, Cultural & Commercial 
Infrastructure 
7
Any Other
Total
No of new Projects 
Total Amount 
Sanctioned 
Amount Outstanding
Amount Disbursed
Name of the Bank/DFI: 
Cummulative Amount 
Disbursed
Infrastructure Financing Profile
Amount of NPLs
S.No.
Sectors/Category
No of Projects
