 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
PUBLIC SECTOR COMPANIES (CORPORATE GOVERNANCE) RULES, 2013 
Amended vide S.R.O. No. 275(I)/2017 dated April 21, 2017 
 
1. 
Short title, commencement and applicability. — (1) These Rules may be 
called the Public Sector Companies (Corporate Governance) Rules, 2013. 
 
(2) 
They shall come into force on 8th August, 2013. 
 
(3) 
These rules shall apply to all Public Sector Companies, as defined in clause 
(g) of rule 2.  
 
(4) 
In the case of listed Public Sector Companies, where there is any 
inconsistency with the Code of Corporate Governance, the provisions of these rules shall 
prevail. 
 
2. 
Definitions.__ (1) In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the 
subject or context: 
(a) 
“Board” means board of directors of a Public Sector Company; 
(b) 
“Commission” means the Securities and Exchange Commission of 
Pakistan established under the Securities and Exchange Commission 
of Pakistan Act, 1997 (XLII of 1997); 
(c) 
“Executive” means an employee of a Public Sector Company, who 
is entrusted with responsibilities of an administrative or managerial 
nature, including the Chief Executive and Executive Director; 
 (d) 
“Independent Director” means a Non-Executive Director who is not 
in the service of Pakistan or of any statutory body or any body or 
institution owned or controlled by the Government and who is not 
connected or does not have any other relationship, whether 
pecuniary or otherwise, with the Public Sector Company, its 
associated companies, subsidiaries, holding company or directors. 
 
 
2
 
 
The test of independence principally emanates from the fact whether 
such person can be reasonably perceived as being able to exercise 
independent judgment without being subservient to any form of 
conflict of interest.  
 
A director shall not be considered independent if one or more of the 
following circumstances exist,-  
(i) 
he has been an employee of the Public Sector Company, any 
of its subsidiaries, or holding company during the last two 
years;  
(ii) 
he has, or has had within the last two years, a material 
business relationship with the Public Sector Company either 
directly or indirectly, or  director of a body that has such a 
relationship with the Public Sector Company;  
(iii) 
he has received remuneration in the two years preceding his 
appointment as a director or has received additional 
remuneration excluding retirement benefits from the Public 
Sector Company apart from director’s fee or has participated 
in the Public Sector Company’s share option or a 
performance-related pay scheme;  
(iv) 
he is a close relative (spouse, lineal ascendants and 
descendants and brothers and sisters) of the company’s 
promoters, directors or major shareholders;  
(v) 
he holds cross-directorships or has significant links with 
other directors through involvement in other companies or 
bodies; or 
(vi) 
he has served on the Board for more than two consecutive 
terms from the date of his first appointment provided that 
such person shall be deemed independent director after a 
lapse of one term;  
(e) 
“Non-Executive Director” means a director of a Public Sector 
Company who is not entrusted with responsibilities of an 
administrative or managerial nature;  
(f) 
"Ordinance" means the Companies Ordinance, 1984 (XLVII of 
1984); 
 
 
3
 
 
(g) 
“Public Sector Company” means a company, whether public or 
private, which is directly or indirectly controlled, beneficially 
owned or not less than fifty one percent of the voting securities or 
voting power of which are held by the Government or any 
instrumentality or agency of the Government or a statutory body, or 
in respect of which the Government or any instrumentality or 
agency of the Government or a statutory body, has otherwise power 
to elect, nominate or appoint majority of its directors, and includes a 
public sector association not for profit, licensed under section 42 of 
the Ordinance. 
 
(2) 
All other terms and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall 
have the same meaning as are assigned to them in the Ordinance. 
 
2A.  
Criteria for sound and prudent management. - (1) For the purposes of 
these rules, the following shall be the criteria for sound and prudent management of a 
Public Sector Company, which shall be bound to comply with it at all times namely: - 
 
(a) the business of the Public Sector Company is carried on with 
integrity, objectivity, due care and the professional skills 
appropriate to the nature and scale of its activities; 
 
(b) each director and chief executive officer, by whatever name 
called, of the Public Sector Company complies with the fit and 
proper criteria specified under these rules; 
 
(c)  the Public Sector Company is directed and managed by a 
sufficient number of persons who are fit and proper persons to 
hold the positions which they hold; and 
 
 
 
4
 
 
(d)  the Public Sector Company maintains adequate accounting and 
other records of its business.  
 
(2)  
Accounting and other records shall not be regarded as adequate for 
the purposes of these rules unless they are such as_  
 
(a)  
to enable the business of the Public Sector Company 
to be prudently managed; 
 
(b)  
to enable the Public Sector Company to comply with 
the obligations imposed on it by or under the 
Ordinance and these rules; and 
 
(c) 
comply 
with 
all 
professional 
standards 
and 
pronouncements of relevant professional bodies as 
applicable in Pakistan. 
 
(3)  
The Public Sector Company shall not be regarded as conducting its 
business in a sound and prudent manner if it fails to conduct its business 
with due regard to the legitimate policy objectives and development targets 
of the Government.  
 
 
3. 
Composition of the Board. (1)  The Board shall consists of executive and 
non-executive directors, including independent directors and those representing minority 
interests with the requisite range of skills, competence, knowledge, experience and 
 
 
5
 
 
approach so that the Board as a group includes core competencies and diversity considered 
relevant in the context of the Public Sector Company’s operations. 
 
(2)  
The Board shall have at least one-third of its total members as independent 
directors. The Public Sector Company shall disclose in the annual report non-executive, 
executive and independent directors.   
  
(3) 
 No Independent Director shall participate in share options or any similar 
schemes of the Public Sector Company which entitle him to acquire any interest in the 
Public Sector Company.  
 
(4) 
No person shall be elected or nominated as a director of more than five 
Public Sector Companies and listed companies simultaneously, except their subsidiaries. 
 
(5) 
The Public Sector Company shall, where necessary, take necessary steps to 
ensure that the minority shareholders, as a class, are facilitated by proxy solicitation, for 
which purpose the Public Sector Company shall,-  
 
(a) 
annex with the notice issued under sub-section (4) of section 178 of 
the Ordinance, a statement by a candidate from amongst the 
minority shareholders who seek to contest election to the Board, and 
it may include a profile of the candidate; 
 
(b) 
provide information regarding shareholding structure and copies of 
the register of members to the candidates representing minority 
shareholders; and  
 
(c) 
on a request by the candidates representing minority shareholders 
and at the cost of the company, annex to the notice issued under 
sub-section (4) of section 178 of the Ordinance an additional copy 
of proxy form duly filled in by such candidates. 
 
  
(6) 
The appointing authorities, including the Government and other 
shareholders, shall apply the fit and proper criteria given in the Annexure in making 
 
 
6
 
 
nominations of the persons for election as Board members under the provisions of the 
Ordinance: 
 
Provided that the requirement to comply with the fit and proper criteria is without 
prejudice to compliance with any other requirement for the fitness and propriety of 
directors issued under any special law, rules or regulations by a sector regulator or 
authority governing a specified sector. 
3A. 
Term of office and removal of directors. - (1) A director, once appointed or 
elected under section 180 or section 178 of the Ordinance, shall hold office for a period of 
three years, unless he resigns or is removed in accordance with the provisions of the 
Ordinance.  
 
(2) 
Any casual vacancy arising in the Board in the manner specified in sub-section (1) 
of section 180 of the Ordinance shall be filled in by the directors in accordance with sub-
section (2) of section 180 of the Ordinance. 
 
(3) 
A director nominated by the Government shall hold office in accordance with 
section 183 of the Ordinance. 
 
(4)  
The removal of an elected director shall take place in accordance with section 181 
of the Ordinance and the removal of a nominated director shall only take place_ 
 
(a)  if the director has not performed up to a standard, determined through 
a performance evaluation; 
 
 
7
 
 
(b) 
if the director is found to be in non-compliance with the provisions of 
the Ordinance or these rules; 
(c) 
if the director fails to fulfil his duties and responsibilities under these 
rules; 
(d) 
if the director fails to comply with or deliberately ignores policy 
directives of the Government; 
(e) 
for any administrative reasons such as posting, transfer, retirement, 
etc., the Government decides to withdraw the nomination; or 
(f) 
in the event of his misconduct. 
 
Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, misconduct includes - 
 
(i) 
indulging in a competing professional or personal conflict of 
interests’ situation; 
(ii) 
using the funds, assets and resources of the Public Sector 
Company without due diligence and care; 
(iii) 
failing to treat the colleagues and the staff of the Public Sector 
Company with respect, or using harassment in any form of 
physical or verbal abuse; 
(iv) 
making public statements without authorization by the Board; 
(v) 
receiving gifts or other benefits from any sources external to 
the Public Sector Company offered to him in connection with 
his duties on the Board; or  
 
 
8
 
 
(vi) 
abusing or misusing his official position to gain undue 
advantage or assuming financial or other obligations in private 
institutions or for persons which may cause embarrassment in 
the performance of official duties or functions: 
 
Provided that the notice of removal to a nominated 
director shall give reasons for removal of the director. 
 
 
4. 
Role of the chairman and chief executive and separation of the two 
positions.- (1) The office of the chairman shall be separate, and his responsibilities 
distinct, from those of the chief executive. 
 
 
(2) 
The chairman of the Board shall,- 
 
(a) 
ensure that the Board is properly working and all matters relevant to 
the governance of the Public Sector Company are placed on the 
agenda of Board meetings; 
 
(b)  
conduct the Board meeting including fixing the agenda; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that all the directors are enabled and encouraged to fully 
participate in the deliberations and decisions of the Board. The 
chairman has a responsibility to lead the Board and ensure its 
effective functioning and continuous development, he shall not be 
involved in day to day operations of the Public Sector Company. 
 
 
(3) 
The chief executive is responsible for the management of the Public Sector 
Company and for its procedures in financial and other matters, subject to the oversight 
and directions of the Board, in accordance with the Ordinance and these rules. His 
responsibilities include implementation of strategies and policies approved by the Board, 
making appropriate arrangements to ensure that funds and resources are properly 
safeguarded and are used economically, efficiently and effectively and in accordance 
with all statutory obligations.  
 
 
9
 
 
 
      (4)    The chairman of the Board shall be elected by the Board of Directors of the 
Public Sector Company. However, this provision shall not apply where chairman of the 
Board is appointed by the Government. 
 5. 
Responsibilities, powers and functions of the Board. - (1)The directors of a 
Board shall be persons who, in opinion of the Government, shall assist the Public Sector 
Company to achieve its principal objective and the Board shall accordingly exercise its 
powers and carry out its fiduciary duties with a sense of objective judgment and in the 
best interest of the company. This provision shall apply to all directors, including ex 
officio directors. 
(2) 
The Board shall evaluate the candidates based on the fit and proper criteria and the 
guidelines specified by the Commission for appointment to the position of the chief 
executive and recommend at least three candidates to the Government for its concurrence 
for appointment of one of them as chief executive of the Public Sector Company, except 
where the chief executive is nominated by the Government. On receiving concurrence or 
nomination of the Government, as the case may be, the Board shall appoint the chief 
executive in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance. The Board shall also be 
responsible for development and succession planning of the chief executive. 
  
(3) 
The Board shall ensure that obligations to all shareholders are fulfilled and they are 
duly informed in a timely manner of all material events through shareholder meetings and 
other communications as are considered necessary. 
(4) 
The Board shall ensure that professional standards and corporate values are in 
place that promotes integrity for the Board, senior management and other employees in the 
form of a “Code of Conduct”. The code of conduct shall articulate acceptable and 
unacceptable behaviors. The Board shall ensure that appropriate steps are taken to 
communicate throughout the company the code of conduct it sets together with supporting 
policies and procedures, including posting the same on the company’s website. The Board 
shall also ensure that adequate systems and controls are in place for the identification and 
redressal of grievances arising from unethical practices. 
 
 
10
 
 
(5) 
The Board shall establish a system of sound internal control, which shall be 
effectively implemented at all levels within the Public Sector Company, to ensure 
compliance with the fundamental principles of probity and propriety; objectivity, integrity 
and honesty and relationship with the stakeholders, in the following manner, namely:- 
 
(a) 
the principle of probity and propriety entails that company’s assets 
and resources are not used for private advantage and due economy 
is exercised so as to reduce wastage. The principle shall be adhered 
to, especially with respect to the following, namely:- 
 
(i) 
handling of public funds, assets, resources and confidential 
information by directors, executives and employees; and  
 
(ii) 
claiming of expenses; 
 
 
(b) 
the principle of objectivity, integrity and honesty requires the 
following, namely:- 
 
(i) 
the directors and executives of a Public Sector Company do 
not allow a conflict of interest to undermine their objectivity 
in any of their activities, both professional and private and 
that they do not use their position in the Public Sector 
Company to further their private gains in a social or business 
relationship outside the Public Sector Company. If a 
situation arise where an actual or potential conflict of 
interest exists, there shall be appropriate identification, 
disclosure and management of such conflict of interest; 
 
(ii) 
An appropriate conflict of interest policy is developed and 
duly enforced. Such a policy shall clearly lay down 
circumstances or considerations when a person may be 
deemed to have actual or potential conflict of interest, and 
the procedure for disclosing such interest: 
 
 
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause a person shall 
be deemed to have an interest in a matter if he has any stake, 
pecuniary or otherwise, in such matter which could 
reasonably be regarded as giving rise to a conflict between 
his duty to objectively perform his functions under these 
 
 
11
 
 
rules so that his ability to consider and decide any matter 
impartially or to give any advice without bias, may 
reasonably be regarded as impaired; 
 
(iii) 
where a director, executive or other employee has a conflict 
of interest in a particular matter, such person shall play no 
part in the relevant discussion, decision or action; 
 
(iv) 
a “register of interests” is maintained to record all relevant 
personal, financial and business interests, of directors and 
executives who have any decision making role in the 
company, and the same shall be made publicly available. 
Such interests may include, for instance, any significant 
political activity, including office holding, elected positions, 
public appearances and candidature for election, undertaken 
in the last five years;   
 
(v) 
a declaration by the directors and executives that they shall 
not offer or accept any payment, bribe, favor or inducement 
which might influence, or appear to influence, their 
decisions and actions; and 
 
(vi) 
the Board shall also develop and implement a policy on 
“anti-corruption” to minimize actual or perceived corruption 
in the company; and 
 
(c) 
the principle of relationship with stakeholders requires the 
following, namely:- 
 
(i) 
ensuring that the directors and executives uphold the 
reputation of the company by treating the general public, 
institutional investors and other stakeholders with courtesy, 
integrity and efficiency, and ensuring service quality; 
 
(ii) 
ensuring equality of opportunity by establishing open and 
fair 
procedures 
for 
making 
appointments 
and 
for 
determining terms and conditions of service. The Board may 
nominate a committee consisting of one of its members or 
senior Executives for investigating, where necessary on a 
confidential basis, any deviation from the company’s code of 
conduct; and 
  
 
 
12
 
 
(iii) 
ensuring compliance with the law and the Public Sector 
Company’s internal rules and procedures relating to public 
procurement, tender regulations, purchasing and technical 
standards, when dealing with suppliers of goods and 
services. The Board shall ensure that quality standards are 
followed with due diligence and that suppliers comply with 
the standards specified and are paid for supplies or services 
within the time agreed. 
 
(6) 
The Board shall adopt a vision or mission statement and corporate strategy 
for the Public Sector Company. 
 
(7) 
The Board shall also formulate significant policies of the Public Sector 
Company, which may include the following, namely:- 
(a) 
the formal approval and adoption of the annual report of the Public 
Sector Company, including the financial statements; 
(b) 
the implementation of an effective communication policy with all 
the stakeholders of the Public Sector Company; 
(c) 
the identification and monitoring of the principal risks and 
opportunities of the Public Sector Company and ensuring that 
appropriate systems are in place to manage these risks and 
opportunities, including, safeguarding the public reputation of the 
Public Sector Company; 
(d) 
procurement of goods and services so as to enhance transparency in 
procurement transactions; 
(e) 
marketing of goods to be sold or services to be rendered by the 
Public Sector Company;  
(f) 
determination of terms of credit and discount to customers; 
(g) 
write-off of bad or doubtful debts, advances and receivables; 
(h) 
acquisition or disposal of fixed assets and investments; 
(i) 
borrowing of moneys up to a specified limit, exceeding which the 
amounts shall be sanctioned or ratified by a general meeting of 
shareholders; 
 
 
13
 
 
(j) 
Corporate social responsibility initiatives including, donations, 
charities, contributions and other payments of a similar nature;  
(k) 
determination and delegation of financial powers to Executives and 
employees; 
(l) 
transactions or contracts with associated companies and related 
parties;  
(m) 
health, safety and environment;  
(n) 
development of whistle-blowing policy and protection mechanism;  
(o) 
capital expenditure planning and control;  
(p) 
protection of public interests; and 
(q) 
human resource policy including succession planning. 
 
(8) 
Any service delivered or goods sold by a Public Sector Company as a 
public service obligation where decisions are taken in fulfilling social objectives of the 
Government but are not in its commercial interests, outlay of such action shall be 
quantified and request for appropriate compensation there-for shall be submitted to the 
Government for consideration.    
 
 
(9) 
A complete record of particulars of the above-mentioned policies along 
with the dates on which they were approved or amended by the Board shall be maintained. 
 
(10) 
The Board shall define the level of materiality, keeping in view the specific 
context of the Public Sector Company and the recommendations of any committee of the 
Board that may be set up for the purpose. 
 
        (11) 
The Board shall ensure compliance with policy directions received from 
Government from time to time. 
 
 
14
 
 
     (12) 
       The Board shall ensure compliance with the reporting requirements received 
from the Government within the specified time-frame, related to, including but not limited 
to, audit, finance, parliamentary business, performance and ancillary matters: 
  
Provided that the Board shall nominate the company secretary or any other official 
at appropriate level as focal person for maintaining liaison with the Government regarding 
the aforesaid matters. 
 
6. 
Meetings of the Board.- (1) The Board shall meet at least once, each 
quarter of a year, to ensure that it discharges its duties and obligations to shareholders and 
other stakeholders efficiently and effectively. In case of non-compliance, the same shall be 
reported to the Commission with reasons of non-compliance, within fourteen days of the 
end of the quarter in which the meeting should have been held.  
 
(2) 
Written notices of meetings, including the agenda, duly approved by the 
Chairman, shall be circulated not less than seven days before the meetings, except in the 
case of emergency meetings, where the notice period may be reduced or waived by the 
Board.  
 
(3) 
The chairman of the Board shall ensure that minutes of meetings of the 
Board are appropriately recorded by approving them under his signature. The minutes of 
meetings shall be circulated after approval of the chairman, to directors and officers 
entitled to attend Board meetings, not later than fourteen days thereof, unless a shorter 
period is provided in the articles of association of the Public Sector Company.  
 
(4) 
In the event that a director of a Public Sector Company is of the view that 
his dissenting note has not been satisfactorily recorded in the minutes of a meeting of the 
Board, he may refer the matter to the company secretary, or the chairman of the Board. 
The director may require the note to be appended to the minutes, failing which he may file 
an objection with the Commission. 
 
 
15
 
 
 
  
(5) 
A Board meeting held and attended through video-conferencing shall be a 
valid meeting, as long as its proceedings are properly recorded and the requirements 
specified by the Commission for public companies for holding Board meetings through 
video-conferencing are met.  
 
7. 
Key information to be placed for decision by the Board .- (1) The Board 
shall establish appropriate arrangements to ensure it has access to all relevant information, 
advice and resources necessary to enable it to carry out its role effectively. Significant 
issues shall be placed before the Board for its information and consideration, in order to 
formalize and strengthen the corporate decision making process. 
 
 
(2) 
For the purpose of sub-rule (1), significant issues shall, inter-alia, include 
the following, namely:- 
(a) 
annual business plans, cash flow projections, forecasts and long 
term plans; budgets including capital, manpower and expenditure 
budgets, along with variance analyses;  
(b) 
internal audit reports, including cases of fraud or major 
irregularities;  
(c) 
management letters issued by the external auditors;  
(d) 
details of joint ventures or collaboration agreements or agreements 
with distributors, agents, etc;  
(e) 
promulgation or amendment of a law, rule or regulation or, 
enforcement of an accounting standard or such other matters as may 
affect the Public Sector Company;  
(f) 
status and implications of any lawsuit or judicial proceedings of 
material nature, filed by or against the Public Sector Company;  
(g) 
any show cause, demand or prosecution notice received from any 
revenue or regulatory authority, which may be material;  
(h) 
material payments of government dues, including income tax, excise 
and customs duties, and other statutory dues including penal charges 
thereon;  
 
 
16
 
 
(i) 
inter-corporate investments in and loans to or from associated 
concerns in which the business group, of which the Public Sector 
Company is a part, has significant interest;  
(j) 
policies related to the award of contracts and purchase and sale of 
raw materials, finished goods, machinery etc; 
(k) 
default in payment of principal or interest, including penalties on 
late payments and other dues, to a creditor, bank or financial 
institution or default in payment of public deposit;  
(l) 
failure to recover material amounts of loans, advances, and deposits 
made by the Public Sector Company, including trade debts and 
inter-corporate finances;  
(m) 
any significant accidents, dangerous occurrences and instances of 
pollution and environmental problems involving the Public Sector 
Company;  
(n) 
significant public or product liability claims made or likely to be 
made against the Public Sector Company, including any adverse 
judgment or order made on the conduct of the Public Sector 
Company or of any other company that may bear negatively on the 
Public Sector Company;  
(o) 
disputes with labor and their proposed solutions, any agreement 
with the labor union or collective bargaining agent and any charter 
of demands on the Public Sector Company;   
(p) 
payment for goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property;  
(q) 
annual, quarterly, monthly or other periodical accounts as are 
required to be approved by the Board for circulation amongst its 
members; 
(r) 
reports on governance, risk and compliance issues; 
(s) 
whistle-blower protection mechanism; 
(t) 
report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities; and 
(u) 
related party transactions. 
 
 
 
17
 
 
8.  
Performance evaluation. - (1)  
The 
performance 
evaluation 
of 
members of the Board including the chairman and the chief executive shall be undertaken 
annually by the Government for which the Government shall enter into performance 
contract with each member of the Board at the time of his appointment. 
  
 
(2) 
The Board shall monitor and assess the performance of senior management 
on a periodic basis, at least once a year, and hold them accountable for accomplishing 
objectives, goals and key performance indicators set for this purpose. 
 
  
9.  
Related party transactions. - (1) The details of all related party 
transactions shall be placed before the audit committee of the Public Sector Company and 
upon recommendations of the audit committee, the same shall be placed before the Board 
for review and approval. 
  
(2) 
The related party transactions which are not executed at arm's length price 
shall also be placed separately at each Board meeting along with necessary justification 
for consideration and approval of the Board on recommendation of the audit committee of 
the Public Sector Company.  
  
(3) 
The Board shall approve the pricing methods for related party transactions 
that were made on the terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transaction 
only if such terms can be substantiated.  
 
  
(4) 
 Every Public Sector Company shall maintain a party wise record of 
transactions, in each financial year, entered into with related parties in that year along 
with all such documents and explanations. The record of related party transaction shall 
include the following particulars in respect of each transaction, namely:- 
 
(a)  
name of related party;  
(b)  
nature of relationship with related party;  
(c)  
nature of transaction;  
 
 
18
 
 
(d)  
amount of transaction; and 
(e)  
terms and conditions of transaction, including the amount of 
consideration received or given. 
 
  
(5) 
The Public Sector Company may seek a general mandate from its members 
for recurrent related party transactions of revenue or trading nature or those necessary for 
its day-to-day operations such as the purchase and sale of supplies and materials, but not 
in respect of the purchase or sale of assets, undertakings or businesses. A general mandate 
is subject to annual renewal. 
 
10. 
Quarterly and Monthly Financial Statements and Annual Report. –  
(1) 
Every Public Sector Company shall, within one month of the close of first, 
second and third quarter of its year of account, prepare a profit and loss account for, and 
balance-sheet as at the end of, that quarter, whether audited or otherwise, for the Board’s 
approval. Annual report including annual financial statements shall be placed on the 
Public Sector Company’s website: 
Provided that Public Sector Companies which are listed on the exchange shall 
prepare half-yearly accounts within such time period and undertake limited scope review 
by the auditors as specified by the Commission from time to time.  
 
  
11.  
Board orientation and learning.- (1) Orientation courses shall be held by 
a Public Sector Company, to enable directors to better comprehend the specific context in 
which it operates, including its operations and environment, awareness of Public Sector 
Company’s values and standards of probity and accountability as well as their duties as 
directors.   
 
 
(2)  
In order to ensure that the directors are well conversant with the corporate 
laws and practices, they are encouraged to have certification under an appropriate 
training or education program offered by any institution, local or foreign.   
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
(3) 
In order to acquaint the Board members with the wider scope of 
responsibilities concerning the use of public resources, to act in good faith and in the best 
interests of the Public Sector Company, at least one orientation course shall be arranged 
annually for the directors and the following information in writing, inter-alia, shall be 
provided, namely:-  
(a) 
Public Sector Company’s aims and objectives;  
(b) 
control environment and control activities;  
(c) 
key policies and procedures;  
(d) 
risk management and internal control framework;  
(e) 
background of key personnel, including their job descriptions;  
(f) 
delegation of financial and administrative powers;  
(g) 
board and staff structure; and  
(h) 
budgeting, planning and performance evaluation systems. 
 
 
12.  
Formation of Board committees.- (1) The Board shall set up the following 
committees to support it in performing its functions efficiently, and for seeking assistance 
in the decision making process, namely:-  
 
(a) 
audit committee, for an efficient and effective internal and external 
financial reporting mechanism; 
 
(b) 
risk management committee, in case of Public Sector Companies 
either in the financial sector or those having assets of five billion 
rupees or more, to effectively review the risk function; 
 
(c) 
human resources committee, to deal with all employee related 
matters including recruitment, training, remuneration, performance 
evaluation, succession planning, and measures for effective 
utilization of the employees of the Public Sector Company;  
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
(d) 
procurement committee, to ensure transparency in procurement 
transactions and in dealing with the suppliers; and 
 
(e) 
nomination committee, to identify, evaluate and recommend 
candidates for vacant positions, including casual vacancies, on the 
Board, including the candidates recommended by the Government 
for consideration of shareholders or in case of casual vacancy to the 
board of directors after examining their skills and characteristics 
that are needed in such candidates: 
 
Provided that the nomination committee shall submit its 
proposal within thirty days of a vacancy arising or on a 
recommendation made by the Government as the case may be.  
 
 
(2) 
The Board committees shall be chaired by non-executive directors. However, the 
independent directors in the committees shall not be less than their proportionate 
strength. The existence of such committees shall not absolve the Board from its collective 
responsibility for all matters. Such committees shall have written terms of reference that 
define their duties, authority and composition, and shall report to the full Board. The 
minutes of their meetings shall be circulated to all Board members.  
 
(3) 
The Board shall concern itself with policy formulation and oversight and not the 
approval of individual transactions except which are of an extraordinary nature or involve 
materially large amount. 
 
  
13. 
Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and Chief Internal 
Auditor – appointment and removal.- (1) The Board shall appoint a chief financial 
officer, a company secretary and a chief internal auditor by whatever name called. 
 
  
(2) 
The appointment, remuneration and terms and conditions of employment of 
the chief financial officer, the company secretary and the chief internal auditor of Public 
Sector Company shall be determined with the approval of the Board. 
 
  
(3)  
The chief financial officer, the company secretary, or the chief internal 
auditor of Public Sector Company shall not be removed except with the approval of the 
Board. 
 
 
21
 
 
 
  
14. 
Role and qualification of Chief Financial Officer and Company 
Secretary.- (1) The chief financial officer shall be responsible for ensuring that 
appropriate advice is given to the Board on all financial matters, for keeping proper 
financial records and accounts, and for maintaining an effective system of internal 
financial control. 
 
 
(2) 
No person shall be appointed as the chief financial officer of a Public 
Sector Company unless he is,-  
 
(a) 
a member of a recognized body of professional accountants with at 
least five years relevant experience, in case of Public Sector 
Companies having total assets of five billion rupees or more; or 
 
(b) 
a person holding a master degree in finance from a university 
recognized by the Higher Education Commission with at least ten 
years relevant experience, in case of other Public Sector Companies.  
 
 
(3) 
The company secretary shall be responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed, and that all applicable laws, rules and regulations and other 
relevant statements of best practice are complied with.  Where the company secretary is 
not separately appointed, the role of company secretary may be combined with chief 
financial officer or any other member of senior management. 
 
  
(4) 
No person shall be appointed as the company secretary of a Public Sector 
Company unless he is a,-  
 
(a) 
member of a recognized body of professional accountants; or  
 
(b) 
member of a recognized body of corporate or chartered secretaries; 
or  
 
(c) 
person holding a master degree in business administration or 
commerce or being a law graduate from a university recognized by 
the Higher Education Commission with at least five years relevant 
experience. 
 
 
22
 
 
 
  
(5) 
No person shall be appointed to the positions of the chief financial officer 
and company secretary unless he is fit and proper for the position.  
 
  
15. 
Requirement to attend Board Meetings.- (1)  The chief financial officer 
and the company secretary of a Public Sector Company shall attend all meetings of the 
Board:  
 
Provided that unless elected as a director, the chief financial officer and the 
company secretary shall not be deemed to be a director or entitled to cast a vote at 
meetings of the Board for the purposes of these rules: 
 
Provided further that the chief financial officer and the company secretary shall not 
attend such part of a meeting of the Board, which involves consideration of an agenda 
item relating to them or that relating to the chief executive or any director. 
 
  
(2) 
In pursuance of sub-rule (1), the Board shall ensure that the chief financial 
officer and the company secretary attend Board meetings, wherever required. 
 
  
16. 
Financial Reporting Framework.- Every Public Sector Company shall 
adopt International Financial Reporting Standards, as are notified by the Commission 
under clause (i) of sub-section (3) of section 234 of the Ordinance.  
 
  
17. 
Directors’ report to the Shareholders.- (1) The Board shall submit an 
annual report to the shareholders.  
 
  
(2)  
The Board shall make the following statements and provide the following 
information in their report to the shareholders, prepared under section 236 of the 
Ordinance, namely:- 
 
(a) 
the Board has complied with the relevant principles of corporate 
governance, and has identified the rules that have not been complied 
 
 
23
 
 
with, the period in which such non-compliance continued, and 
reasons for such non-compliance; 
 
(b) 
the financial statements, prepared by the management of the Public 
Sector Company, present fairly its state of affairs, the result of its 
operations, cash flows and changes in equity;  
 
(c) 
proper books of account of the Public Sector Company have been 
maintained;  
 
(d) 
appropriate accounting policies have been consistently applied in 
preparation of financial statements and accounting estimates are 
based on reasonable and prudent judgment; 
  
(e) 
they recognize their responsibility to establish and maintain sound 
system of internal control, which is regularly reviewed and 
monitored; and   
 
(f) 
the appointment of chairman and other members of Board and the 
terms of their appointment along with the remuneration policy 
adopted are in the best interests of the Public Sector Company as 
well as in line with the best practices. 
 
 
(3) 
The disclosure of an Executive’s remuneration is an important aspect for a 
Public Sector Company. The annual report of a Public Sector Company shall contain a 
statement on the remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of members of the 
Board. Separate figures need to be shown for salary, fees, other benefits and other 
performance-related elements. 
 
  
(4) 
The directors’ report of a Public Sector Company shall also include the 
following, where applicable, namely:- 
 
(a) 
where the Public Sector Company is reliant on a subsidy or other 
financial support from the Government, a detailed disclosure of the 
fact; 
 
(b) 
significant deviations from last year in operating results of the 
Public Sector Company shall be highlighted and reasons thereof 
shall be explained;  
 
 
24
 
 
 
(c) 
key operating and financial data of last six years shall be 
summarized;  
 
(d) 
key performance indicators of the Public Sector Company relating 
to its social objectives and outcomes which significantly reflect the 
work and impact of Public Sector Company and a comparison of 
actual results with the budgeted figures. Such indicators shall focus 
on as to how well the Public Sector Company has responded to 
accountability requirements, improved service delivery, reduced 
costs and adherence to the principles of environmental and 
corporate social responsibilities; 
 
(e) 
where any statutory payment on account of taxes, duties, levies and 
charges is overdue or outstanding, the amount together with a brief 
description and reasons for the same shall be disclosed;  
 
(f) 
significant plans and decisions, such as corporate restructuring, 
business expansion and discontinuance of operations, shall be 
outlined along with future prospects, risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the Public Sector Company;  
 
(g) 
a statement as to the value of investments of provident, gratuity and 
pension funds, based on their respective audited accounts, shall be 
included;  
 
(h) 
the number of Board meetings held during the year and attendance 
by each director shall be disclosed; and  
 
(i) 
the pattern of shareholding shall be reported to disclose the 
aggregate number of shares (alongwith details, stated below) held 
by,-  
 
(i) 
Government; 
 
(ii) 
associated companies, undertakings and related parties 
(name wise details);  
 
(iii) 
mutual funds;  
 
(iv) 
directors, Chief Executive, and their spouse and minor 
children (name wise details);  
 
 
25
 
 
 
(v) 
Executives;  
 
(vi) 
Public Sector Companies and corporations;  
 
(vii) 
banks, development finance institutions, non-banking 
finance companies, insurance companies, takaful companies,  
and modarabas; and  
 
(viii) shareholders holding five percent or more voting rights in 
the Public Sector Company (name wise details).  
 
 
18. 
Disclosure of Interests by Directors and Officers. – (1) Every director of 
a Public Sector Company, if he or his relative, is in any way, directly or indirectly, 
concerned or interested in any contract or arrangement entered into, or to be entered into, 
by or on behalf of the Public Sector Company shall disclose the nature of his concern or 
interest at a meeting of the directors. 
 
 
(2) 
Any other officer (including the Chief Executive and other Executives) of a 
Public Sector Company, if he or his relative, is in any way, directly or indirectly, 
concerned or interested in any proposed contract or arrangement by the company shall 
disclose to the Company through a communication to the company secretary, the nature 
and extent of his interest in the transaction. Such officer and the company shall ensure 
that such information is properly placed and considered by any forum where the matter 
relating to such proposed contract or arrangement is to be discussed and approved.   
 
 
(3) 
If a director or officer has an existing interest, before joining the Board, he 
shall disclose such interest to the Board, which shall take such facts into consideration for 
any current and future decision making.  
 
 
19.  
Directors’ Remuneration. – (1) There shall be a formal and transparent 
procedure for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors. No director shall 
be involved in deciding his own remuneration.  
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
(2)  
Directors’ remuneration packages shall encourage value creation within the 
company, and shall align their interests with those of the company. These shall be subject 
to prior approval of shareholders or Board as required by company’s Articles of 
Association. Levels of remuneration shall be sufficient to attract and retain the directors 
needed to run the company successfully.  
 
 
(3) 
Subject to the provisions of the company’s Articles of Association, the 
shareholders or Board shall determine the scale of remuneration for non-executive 
directors. However, it shall not be at a level that could be perceived to compromise their 
independence. 
 
 
(4)  
The Public Sector Company’s annual report shall contain criteria and 
details of the remuneration of each director, including salary, benefits and performance 
linked incentives. 
 
 
 
20. 
Responsibility for financial reporting and corporate compliance.- No 
Public Sector Company shall circulate its financial statements unless the chief executive 
and the chief financial officer, present the financial statements, duly certified under their 
respective signatures, for consideration and approval of the audit committee and the 
Board. The Board shall, after consideration and approval, authorize the signing of 
financial statements for issuance and circulation.  
 
 
21. 
Audit Committee.- (1) The Board shall establish an audit committee, 
whose members shall be financially literate and majority of them, including its chairman, 
shall be Independent Non-Executive Directors, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2) of 
rule 12. The names of members of the audit committee shall be disclosed in each annual 
report of the Public Sector Company.  
 
 
(2) 
The chairman of the Board as well as the chief executive of the Public 
Sector Company shall not be a member of the audit committee. 
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
(3) 
The chief financial officer, the chief internal auditor, and a representative of 
the external auditors shall attend all meetings of the audit committee at which issues 
relating to accounts and audit are discussed:  
  
  
Provided that at least once a year, the audit committee shall meet the external 
auditors without the presence of the chief financial officer, the chief internal auditor and 
other executives being present, to ensure independent communication between the 
external auditors and the audit committee:  
 
Provided further that at least once a year, the audit committee shall meet chief 
internal auditor and other members of the internal audit function without the chief 
financial officer and the external auditors being present. 
 
 
(4) 
The Board shall determine the terms of reference of the audit committee. 
The terms of reference shall be in writing, specifying the mandate of the audit committee. 
The audit committee shall have full and explicit authority to investigate any matter within 
its terms of reference and shall be provided with adequate resources and access to all 
relevant information. 
 
 
(5) 
The audit committee shall, inter-alia, be responsible for recommending to 
the Board the appointment of external auditors by the Public Sector Company’s 
shareholders and shall consider any questions of resignation or removal of external 
auditors, audit fees and provision by external auditors of any service to the Public Sector 
Company in addition to audit of its financial statements. In the absence of strong grounds 
to proceed otherwise, the Board shall act in accordance with the recommendations of the 
audit committee in all these matters. However, the Board shall not be deemed to absolve 
itself of its overall responsibility for the functions delegated to the audit committee. 
 
  
(6) 
The terms of reference of the audit committee may also include the 
following, namely:- 
(a) 
determination of appropriate measures to safeguard the Public 
Sector Company’s assets;  
 
 
28
 
 
(b) 
review of financial results;  
(c) 
review of quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial statements of 
the Public Sector Company, prior to their approval by the Board, 
focusing on,-  
(i) 
major judgment areas; 
(ii) 
significant adjustments resulting from the audit;  
(iii) 
the going-concern assumption;  
(iv) 
any changes in accounting policies and practices; and 
(v) 
compliance with applicable accounting standards.  
   
Explanation.- The appropriateness of the use of the going concern 
assumption in the preparation of the financial statements is 
generally not in question when auditing Public Sector Company 
having funding arrangements backed by the Government. However, 
where such arrangements do not exist, or where Government 
funding of the Public Sector Company may be withdrawn and the 
existence of the Public Sector Company may be at risk, 
International Standards on Auditing provide useful guidance. This 
issue is increasingly important for Public Sector Companies which 
have been privatized; 
(d) 
facilitating the external audit and discussion with external auditors 
of major observations arising from interim and final audits and any 
matter that the auditors may wish to highlight (in the absence of 
management, where necessary);  
(e) 
review of management letter issued by external auditors and 
management’s response thereto;  
(f) 
ensuring coordination between the internal and external auditors of 
the Public Sector Company;  
(g) 
review of the scope and extent of internal audit and ensuring that the 
internal audit function has adequate resources and is appropriately 
placed within the Public Sector Company;  
(h) 
consideration of major findings of internal investigations and 
management's response thereto;  
 
 
29
 
 
(i) 
ascertaining that the internal control system including financial and 
operational controls, accounting system and reporting structure are 
adequate and effective;  
(j) 
review of the Public Sector Company’s statement on internal control 
systems prior to endorsement by the Board;  
(k) 
recommending or approving the hiring or removal of the chief 
internal auditor; 
(l) 
instituting special projects, value for money studies or other 
investigations on any matter specified by the Board, in consultation 
with the chief executive and to consider remittance of any matter to 
the external auditors or to any other external body;  
(m) 
determination of compliance with relevant statutory requirements;  
(n) 
monitoring compliance with the best practices of corporate 
governance and identification of significant violations thereof;  
(o) 
overseeing whistle-blowing policy and protection mechanism; and  
(p) 
consideration of any other issue or matter as may be assigned by the 
Board.  
  
(7) 
The audit committee shall be responsible for managing the relationship of 
Public Sector Company with the external auditors. In managing the Public Sector 
Company’s relationship with the external auditors on behalf of the Board, the audit 
committee’s responsibilities include,- 
 
(a) 
suggesting the appointment of the external auditor to the Board, the 
audit fee, and any questions of resignation or dismissal; 
 
(b) 
considering the objectives and scope of any non-financial audit or 
consultancy work proposed to be undertaken by the external 
auditors, and reviewing the remuneration for this work;  
 
(c) 
discussing with the external auditors before the audit commences 
the scope of the audit and the extent of reliance on internal audit and 
other review agencies; 
 
 
 
30
 
 
(d) 
discussing with the external auditors any significant issues from the 
review of the financial statements by the management, and any 
other work undertaken or overseen by the audit committee; 
 
(e) 
reviewing and considering the external auditors’ communication 
with management and management’s response thereto; and  
 
(f) 
reviewing progress on accepted recommendations from the external 
auditors. 
 
  
(8) 
The recommendations of the audit committee for appointment of retiring 
auditors or otherwise, as mentioned in sub-rule (7) above, shall be included in the 
directors’ report. In case of a recommendation for change of external auditors before the 
lapse of three consecutive financial years, the reasons for the same shall be included in 
the directors’ report. 
 
 
(9) 
The audit committee shall appoint a secretary of the Committee, who shall 
circulate minutes of its meetings to the all members, directors and the chief financial 
officer, within fourteen days of the meeting. 
 
  
22. 
Internal Audit.- (1) There shall be an internal audit function in every 
Public Sector Company. The chief internal auditor, who is the head of the internal audit 
function in the Public Sector Company, shall be accountable to the audit committee and 
have unrestricted access to the audit committee.   
 
 
(2) 
No person shall be appointed to the position of the chief internal auditor 
unless he is considered and approved as “fit and proper” for the position by the Audit 
Committee. No person shall be appointed as the Chief Internal Auditor of a Public Sector 
Company unless he has five years of relevant audit experience and is a,-  
 
(a)  
member of a recognized body of professional accountants; or  
(b)  
certified internal auditor; or 
(c)  
certified fraud examiner; or 
 
 
31
 
 
(d) 
certified internal control auditor; or 
(e) 
person holding a master degree in finance from a university 
recognized by the Higher Education Commission. 
 
Provided that individuals serving as chief internal auditor of the Public 
Sector Company for the last five years at the time of coming into force of these rules shall 
be exempted from the above qualification requirement.  
 
 
(3)  
Every Public Sector Company shall ensure that internal audit reports are 
provided for the review of external auditors. The external auditors shall discuss any major 
findings in relation to the reports with the audit committee, which shall report matters of 
significance to the Board. 
 
 
(4)  
The internal audit function shall have an audit charter, duly approved by the 
audit committee and shall work, as far as practicable, in accordance with the standards for 
the professional practice of internal auditors issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors 
Inc., (the global professional organization of internal audit profession).   
 
 
23. 
External Auditors.- (1) Every Public Sector Company shall ensure that its 
annual accounts are audited by external auditors, as envisaged under section 252 of the 
Ordinance. When carrying out audit of a Public Sector Company, the external auditors 
shall take into account the specific requirements of any other relevant regulations, 
ordinances or ministerial directives which affect the audit mandate and any special 
auditing requirements.   
 
 
(2) 
In assessing materiality, the external auditor must, in addition to exercising 
professional judgment, consider any legislation or regulation which may impact that 
assessment. 
 
 
(3) 
The external auditors shall independently report to the shareholders in 
accordance with statutory and professional requirements. They shall also report to the 
 
 
32
 
 
Board and audit committee the matters of audit interest, as laid down in the International 
Standards on Auditing.   
 
  
(4) 
No Public Sector Company shall appoint as external auditors a firm of 
auditors which firm or a partner of which firm is non-compliant with the International 
Federation of Accountants' (IFAC) Guidelines on Code of Ethics, as applicable in 
Pakistan. 
 
  
(5) 
The external auditors shall observe applicable guidelines issued by the 
International Federation of Accountants with regard to restriction of non-audit services. 
The audit committee shall also ensure that the external auditors do not perform 
management functions or make management decisions, responsibility for which remains 
with the Board and management of the Public Sector Company. 
 
  
(6) 
Every Public Sector Company in the financial sector shall change its 
external auditors every five years. Financial sector, for this purpose, means banks, non-
banking finance companies, mutual funds, modarabas, takaful companies and insurance 
companies. Every Public Sector Company other than those in the financial sector shall, at 
a minimum, rotate the engagement partner after every five years. 
 
  
(7) 
No Public Sector Company shall appoint a person as its chief executive, 
chief financial officer, chief internal auditor or director who was a partner of the firm of 
its external auditors (or an employee involved in the audit of the Public Sector Company) 
at any time during the two years preceding such appointment.   
 
  
(8) 
Every Public Sector Company shall require external auditors to furnish a 
management letter to its Board not later than thirty days from the date of audit report. 
 
 
24. 
Compliance with the rules.- (1) Every Public Sector Company shall 
publish and circulate a statement along with its annual report to set out the status of its 
compliance with these rules, and shall also file with the Commission and the registrar 
concerned such statement alongwith its annual report. 
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
(2) 
Every Public Sector Company shall ensure that the statement of compliance 
with the rules is reviewed and certified by external auditors, where such compliance can 
be objectively verified, before publication by the Public Sector Company. 
 
 
(3) 
Where the Commission is satisfied that it is not practicable to comply with 
any of these rules, the Commission may, for reasons to be recorded, relax the same 
subject to such conditions as it may deem fit to impose. 
 
 
25.  
Penalty for contravention of the rules.- Whoever fails or refuses to 
comply with, or contravenes any provision of these rules, or knowingly and willfully 
authorises or permits such failure, refusal or contravention shall, in addition to any other 
liability under the Ordinance, be punishable with fine and, in the case of continuing 
failure, to a further fine, as provided in sub-section (2) of section 506 of the Ordinance. 
 
-.-.-.-.- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ANNEXURE 
[See Rule 3(7)] 
 
CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING A ‘FIT AND PROPER PERSON’ 
 
 (1) 
For the purpose of determining as to whether a person proposed to be appointed as 
director is a ‘fit and proper person’, the appointing authorities  shall take into account any 
consideration as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria, namely:-  
The person proposed for the said position –  
 
(a) 
is at least graduate; 
 
 
34
 
 
 
(b) 
is a reputed businessman or a recognised professional with relevant  sectoral 
experience; 
 
(c) 
has financial integrity; 
 
(d) 
has no  convictions or civil liabilities; 
 
(e) 
is known to have competence; 
 
(f) 
has good reputation and character; 
 
(g) 
has the traits of efficiency and honesty;  
 
(h) 
does not suffer from any disqualification to act as a director stipulated in the 
Ordinance; 
 
(i) 
has not been subject to an order passed by the Commission cancelling the 
certificate of registration granted to the person individually or collectively 
with others on the ground of its indulging in insider trading, fraudulent and 
unfair trade practices or market manipulation, illegal banking, forex or 
deposit taking business; 
 
(j) 
has not been subject to an order passed by the Commission or any other 
regulatory authority, withdrawing or refusing to grant any license or approval 
to him which has a bearing on the capital market; 
 
(k) 
is not a stock broker or agent of a broker; and 
 
(l) 
does not suffer from a conflict of interest; this includes political office 
holders whether or not in a legislative role. 
 
(2) 
A director shall cease to be considered as a “fit and proper person” for the purpose, 
if he incurs any of the following disqualifications, namely:- 
 
(a) 
he is convicted by a court for any offence involving moral turpitude, 
economic offence, disregard of securities and company laws or fraud; 
 
(b) 
an order for winding up has been passed against a company of which he was 
the officer as defined under section 305 of the Ordinance;  
 
 
 
35
 
 
(c) 
he or his close relatives have been engaged in a business which is of the 
same nature as and directly competes with the business carried on by the 
Public Sector Company of which he is the director; 
 
(d) 
he does not conduct his duties with due diligence and skill; or 
(e) 
his association with the Public Sector Company is likely, for 
whatever reason, to be detrimental to the interest of the Public 
Sector Company, or be otherwise undesirable. 
